The nest of the Golden Oriole is usually, though not invariably, suspended
between the forking branches of an oak, frequently at a considerable height from
the ground, and at the end of a somewhat slender bough. The outer walls are
formed of broad-leaved sedges, grasses, strips of bark (often white birch-bark) wool
etc., carefully interwoven, and including the branches between which it hangs; the
lining consists of fine grasses, sometimes with the flowering heads attached. The
eggs, which number from four to five, are shining milk-white, with scattered pur-
plish black spots, and occasionally a few greyish shell-spots.

The season of nidification appears to be from May to June.

The call-note of this bird is clear and flute-like, but its alarm-note is a harsh
croaking khrr: the song is short but melodious: Seebohm renders it "wheet, li,
vee-o." The Rev. H. A. Macpherson states that the males have a cat-like call: he
also observes (Zoologist, 1891, p. 467) after noting the fact that the females as
they grow older approach the male colouring:-"I do not think that the female
of this Oriole would be at all exposed to danger when sitting by bright colours.
It is not easy to see even a male Golden Oriole in the top of a big oak or elm
in the breeding season. The birds crouch close to the boughs if alarmed, and
neither they nor their nests are easy to distinguish among the fully expanded
leaves."

The food of this bird consists largely of insects and their larvæ, spiders, and
the like; but as the fruit season approaches, its diet somewhat changes, cherries
being especially relished by it: in confinement it does well on the usual food for
insectivorous birds. Being both beautiful and musical it is much esteemed as a
cage-bird, and years ago I asked a friend to obtain nestlings for me; but perhaps
it was as well that he did not succeed in securing me any, for they seem not to
be easy to bring up. Lord Lilford remarks:-"I have found the young very
difficult to keep alive for more than a week or two, though I know of instances
in which they have been reared with success."

I think it extremely probable that aviculturists, when trying to rear insecti-
vorous birds, feed them far too well: in the case of large birds like Thrushes,
Starlings, or Orioles, I believe that the mixture on which I have always been
successful in rearing the two former, would answer well for all three-oat-flour,
fine peameal, and sifted Spratt's food (or ground dog-biscuit); but in the case of
the Orioles, it might be advantageously varied with soaked ants' cocoons, or living
ants' cocoons if readily procurable.

Some years ago I had a specimen of this bird sent to me; unhappily it was
blind in one eye; whether this affliction affected it or not I cannot say, but, to
the day of its death (which occurred about two years later), I found it the dullest
