and most apathetic bird I ever kept; once or twice I heard its clear bright whistle,
but as a rule it might as well have been stuffed for all the interest it seemed to
take in life.

The Orioles in confinement do not differ from other insectivors in their pas-
sionate love of both mealworms and spiders, and a few of either every day are not
only wholesome, but tend to tame them if they need it.

FAMILY LANIIDÆ.

THE Shrikes or Butcher-birds form a large and well-defined group of birds of
somewhat predaceous habits, strong in their bills, but comparatively weak
in their claws, which, nevertheless, they use for striking at and grasping
their prey. The mandibles are short and thick, the upper one with curved culmen
always with a tolerable well-defined terminal hook, preceded, on the inferior or
cutting edge, by a slight sinus, behind which is a prominent wedge-shaped tooth;
the nostrils are oval, lateral, and basal, and there are well-defined rictal bristles,
as in the Flycatchers.

Dr. Hans Gadow greatly extends the family, to include many types, observing
that the diagnosis of the Laniidæ * * as given by Mr. Sharpe * * is applicable to
Lanius only: he, however, admits that the family, as defined by himself, contains
some very aberrant forms, and I think all naturalists will agree that this should
not be the case if there is any way of avoiding it. Families, Subfamilies, and
genera are conveniences, and the more sharply they can be defined, the more
convenient they are; it is far better to have a small and compact family, than a
large and heterogeneous one.

Dr. Gadow observes in his Catalogue that "The Laniidæ, as described in this
volume, form neither a group complete in itself, nor are the lines of distinction
always drawn closely enough."

Most of the Shrikes are inhabitants of the Old World: in Great Britain they
are represented by the typical genus Lanius alone-a group which contains alto-
gether about forty species, four of which have been obtained on our shores, though
only two of these appear to breed with us.
