becomes the representative form. In the valley of Yenesei, the latter meets,
but does not interbreed with the whiter winged L. lencopterus; the last ranging
through Turkestan to Southern Russia, where, by its union with the typical
L. excubitor, it seems to have produced an intermediate race, known as L. homeyeri."

The Great Grey Shrike is a tolerably frequent visitor to Great Britain in
autumn and winter*: it is also sometimes met with in England in the summer;
indeed, on more than one occasion, when out birds'-nesting with a keen old student
of nature-Dr. John Grayling, of Sittingbourne, he has called my attention to a
specimen of this species, conspicuous by its pied colouring: there is, however, no
satisfactory evidence that it has nested in the British Isles, although an egg in my
collection taken somewhere about the year 1880 by Mr. John Woodgate, at Hadley
(Herts.) certainly looks remarkably like that of L. excubitor.

The adult male of this species is of a pale bluish ash grey-above, this colour
becoming paler on the rump and upper tail-coverts; forehead, a line over each
eye, and the scapulars white; wing black, with white bases and tips to the flights;
central tail feathers black, outer feathers white, intermediate feathers grading
between the two colours; under surface white; flanks slightly greyish; the lores,
cheeks, and ear-coverts black: bill black, the lower mandible paler at the base;
feet black; iris dark brown.

The female chiefly differs from the male in its slightly duller colouring, and
in having the neck and breast barred with greyish-brown. The young are dull
grey above, and dull-white below, the barring of the underparts extending over the
belly; the bill and feet are also paler than in the adults.

The flight of this bird, as judged by the two or three specimens which I have
seen, is somewhat wild and undulating: in its habits it resembles the common
Red-backed species, keeping much to the open country, the outskirts of woods, or
to hedgerows; when noticed it was in each case just leaving a bare projecting
branch of a tree; the first specimen close to a wood in the Stockbury Valley,
the second near Dover.

The food of the Great Grey Shrike consists of good sized insects, new-born
birds, or adult birds of such genera as Parus or Regulus, frogs, lizards, slow-worms,
mice, etc.: it is more raptorial than the Red-backed Shrike; and, not only some-
times hunts down and hovers over its prey, but even holds it down on a branch
and deliberately picks it to pieces after the manner of a hawk; though, as a rule,
it spits it on a thorn after the fashion of its kind.

The nest is usually placed at a much greater height from the ground than
that of our common British species, viz:-at from ten to thirty feet, in the forked
