on migration. A few winter in the valley of the Indus; but the great stream of
migration appears to follow the valley of the Nile to South Africa, where it is
abundant during our winter in Natal, Damara Land, the Transvaal, Angola, and
the Cape Colony."

In Great Britain this bird is common but local; though most abundant in the
southern counties, it has rarely been met with in Cornwall; in Wales, and the central
counties it is not uncommon, yet it is becoming rarer in Norfolk, and in Lincoln-
shire is almost unknown; in the northern counties it is rare, probably increasingly
so; to Scotland it is only a chance straggler, though it has been recorded as
breeding in the south-east; late in May and early in June 1906 several were
observed during migration at Fair Isle (Shetlands). In Ireland a specimen was
shot in 1878, and others were said to have been seen at the same time.

The upper parts of the male are grey, excepting the scapulars and back which
are chestnut-brown; the wing-coverts black, margined with chestnut; wings dark
brown, the feathers edged with chestnut; the two middle tail-feathers black, the
rest white on the basal half, black, edged with white on the terminal half; frontal
band, lores, and ear-coverts black; under parts rosy buffish, whiter on the chin
and under tail-coverts; bill and feet black; iris dark brown. The female is usually
quite unlike the male, her upper parts being reddish-brown, slightly barred on the
mantle, her under parts buffish-white, barred (excepting in the centre) with brown;
there is no black on the head, but a pale buff streak above the eye. Young birds
are somewhat similar to the female, but whiter on the forehead, with ill-defined
eye-streak, their upper parts barred, and their feet greyer.

The common Butcher-bird reaches us early in May, and usually leaves us
again in August or September, although a late straggler has been reported as
captured in November; it is, therefore, probable that only one brood is reared. I
have taken fresh eggs as late as the 8th June, in Kent, but not later than the
29th May, in Norfolk; in the latter county, however, I only met with the nest
twice; it is, therefore, possible that later nests may occur; the first week in June
appears from my dates to be the earliest laying-time in the north of Kent; perhaps
a few nests may be occupied earlier.

The nest of this species is most frequently placed in a hawthorn bush, or
hedge, but sometimes in the fork of a stunted tree, seldom more than five feet
from the ground, and frequently less: the number of eggs is usually five, but
sometimes six. Although there is a good deal of difference in the form and tinting
of the eggs, the general character of the markings is very characteristic in most
specimens laid by this bird: the ground-tint varies from greenish white to creamy
buff, and from the latter colour to salmon-pink; the spots vary from olive to red-
