brown, with underlying spots of bluish-ash; sometimes the surface spots are wholly
wanting, the grey markings alone being in evidence; the spots are usually almost
entirely confined to the broader half, rarely to the apical half; and, still more
rarely, irregularly scattered over the whole surface; in most eggs they are largest,
and form an irregular zone, just above the middle.

In Kent I found the pink variety of the egg extremely rare, indeed I only
once succeeded in taking a full clutch of this form by fighting my way edgeways
through a dense (six-foot thick) hawthorn hedge, the hen bird chacking away, and
making little frantic rushes at my fingers, as I gradually struggled nearer to the
prize. In some counties I am told that the pink form is the prevalent one; it
certainly is the prettiest.

I found the nests of the Red-backed Shrike most commonly in the neigh-
bourhood of Maidstone; taking three in one morning from the forked branches of
stunted trees near the river: in such positions it was invariably more solidly built
than when placed in a bush or hedge; in character it is not unlike some nests
of the Greenfinch, but deeper; the outer walls formed of coarse grass-stalks and
moss, and the lining of fine bents, wool, and horsehair.

As is well-known the name of Butcher-bird has been given to this species
owing to the habit which it has, in common with other Shrikes, of impaling its
prey upon thorns, in order, it is said, more readily to tear them to pieces:* per-
sonally I have never found any of its victims in this unpleasant condition, but
hundreds of observers have done so. Its food consists of insects, young and old
birds (even up to its own size) lizards, and mice: it seizes its prey suddenly,
dropping upon it when unsuspecting an attack; for, although a migratory bird,
the Red-backed Shrike is not very powerful on the wing.

The note of alarm and anger, as already hinted, is a harsh chack or char, the
call-note a harsh chirp, but the song, though short, is very pleasing. Herr Mathias
Rausch says (Gefiederte Welt, 1891, p. 446) "The best singer and mocker among
the rapacious birds is acknowledged to be the Red-backed Shrike or Thorn-piercer
(Lanius collurio). He is also the commonest and most widely distributed of all,
inasmuch as he may be found in a wild state throughout nearly the whole of
Europe. Especially good and varied singers are, however, only to be met with in
regions rich in birds. I have already owned Red-backed Shrikes, which copied
