the Nightingale, the Golden Oriole, the Quail, the Black-cap, the Garden Warbler,
the Icterine Warbler, the Meadow-, and Tree-Pipits, and Song-Thrush perfectly,
and portions of the songs of other birds tolerably well. The only pity is that the
voice of this bird is so weak, that it is unable to reproduce the song of many
other cage-birds kept at the same time, but it always repays one to tend and care
for this songster as a cage-bird; moreover it is easily and cheaply secured, and
also kept alive without difficulty. This bird, however, should especially be secured
by such aviculturists as cannot put up with too loud a bird-song, and who make
a point of not keeping several birds on account of their dissimilarity of song, for
by its song they will at once be satisfied in both respects."

Of course this savage though pretty bird should never be turned into an
aviary with other birds, as it would undoubtedly murder and devour its companions,
even though as large as itself; a flight cage, therefore, is the most suitable home
for it: the staple food should consist of egg, pieces of cheese, with the addition
of minced raw meat, cockroaches, or other insects, and occasionally a dead mouse
or bird: indeed the food for all the Shrikes should be almost exactly the same
as for most of the Corvinæ, but somewhat less varied; because many of the latter
eat fruit, nuts, grain, and even acorns, greedily, as well as the usual soft food.

In 1904, Dr. Albert Günther bred this species from hand-reared birds turned
into an outdoor aviary. They built in the second week of May in a holly-bush,
four feet from the ground; the nest was of the usual type and well-built; it
contained five eggs which were incubated for fourteen days, all being hatched
between the 5th and 6th June: owing to cold weather all died and were removed
by the parents. By June 24th the hen was again sitting on five eggs; these
hatched on the 7th and 8th July; two of these died young but the three others
left the nest on July 23rd and were successfully reared. In the following year
the same pair built in a basket hung in the same holly-bush: incubation com-
menced about June 10th; of the four eggs laid, two were hatched on the 24th, and
the young left the nest on July 10th, and were successfully reared.

It is best to rear this species from the nest; for then it is supposed to become
very tame and confiding; my brief experience of the bird, caught when quite
young, and given to me on the 12th August, 1896, is that it is as wild as any adult
bird, and cuts itself all to pieces in its incessant efforts to force its way through the
wires of its prison; from the nature of its food its cage needs constant cleaning,
otherwise it smells abominably; its note of rage, char, char, is frequently uttered, but
nothing else. As it will not now learn its natural song, a few good performers
such as the Nightingale, Blackcap, Skylark, Grey Singing-finch, or the Pekin Night-
ingale, should be kept in cages near by; in order that it may study their notes.
