The adult male has the middle of the forehead, front of crown, lores, ear-
coverts, sides of neck, and back black; an elongated white spot above each nostril;
crown and nape bright chestnut; lower back grey, shading into whitish on the
rump and upper tail-coverts; wings black, the coverts and secondaries tipped with
white, the primaries white at the base; tail black, tipped with white, the two
outermost feathers white at the base, and with white outer web; the under surface
white, the flanks washed with buff; bill black; feet dark brown; iris hazel. The
female is duller in colouring than the male, the black parts suffused with rufous.
The young are russet-brown, streaked and spotted above with dark brown and
whitish, the wing-feathers broadly bordered and tipped with rufous; the tail also
tipped with rufous, the outermost feathers pale; under surface heavily barred with
brown; bill yellowish horn-brown; feet darker horn-brown.

Like the Red-backed Shrike, this species haunts chiefly open or thinly timbered
country; but in Algeria, from what Dixon says, it appears to frequent the open
spaces in forests of evergreen oak; and Lord Lilford observes (Birds of North-
amptonshire, Vol. I, p. 78) "In Southern Spain, where the Woodchat is a very
common summer visitor, it is to be met with in all sorts of localities-the outskirts
of woods, olive-groves, gardens, and occasionally the great open treeless plains,
where the tall thistles alone offer it a perch or look-out station. In general habits
it much resembles the Red-backed Shrike, but so far as I know does not attack
small birds, which show no fear of it as they do of the former bird."

Seebohm, speaking of the food of the Woodchat, says that it "is composed
of beetles, grasshoppers, and many other insects, which, like the other Shrikes, it
will spit on thorns for the purpose of securing them until they are eaten. It
is often seen on the wing, like a Flycatcher; and when the capture of an insect
is made it returns to its old perching place, ever watchful for an object for a fresh
sally into the air."

The nest of this species is placed in the fork of a low tree; it is formed of
coarse bents and grasses, sometimes intermingled with cudweed (Gnaphalium) and
wool; the lining is either formed of fine grasses and moss, or of the flowers of
cudweed mixed with a few leaves and a little vegetable wool. The eggs number
from four to six, usually five, and somewhat resemble those of the Red-backed
Shrike, but are usually slightly larger; the reddish variety which, in the better
known species, is local but not uncommon, is very rarely met with in eggs of L.
pomeranus.

Speaking of the Woodchat in Malta, Mr. C. A. Wright (Ibis, 1894, p. 59)
says:-"Perched on the uppermost twig of some tree, its shining white breast forms
one of the most conspicuous objects in the ornithological landscape in April. On
