the first appearance of danger, it flies off to another and more distant tree, and,
taking up a similarly elevated position, scans the country round till the danger
which had excited its alarm has passed away. It builds here in May and June,
constructing a compact and well-formed nest in the fork of a carob or almond-tree.
Its affection for, and the courage it displays in the protection of, its young are
remarkable. Wary as it is at other times, on these occasions it seems to lose all
fear; uttering piercing cries, it will fly close round the head of the intruder, and
actually make a feint of dashing in his face."

Howard Saunders says:-"The note usually heard is a harsh krah, kack, krah;
but the male has also a low and rather pretty song in spring, and shows great
capacity for imitating the notes of other birds." Seebohm observes:-"Its song
is by no means unmusical, and very gentle to proceed from such raptorial jaws.*
It reminded me very much of the twittering of a Swallow, or the warble of a
Starling. Some of its call-notes, however, are loud and harsh enough; and I at
first thought it was imitating the notes of other birds, in order to attract them
within reach; but inasmuch as the greater number of notes it apparently imitated
were of birds far too powerful for it to grapple with, such cannot be the case."

Dixon says that he "met with this species (in Algeria) in all parts of the
country wherever the vegetation was sufficient to afford it shelter."

Herr Mathias Rausch says of the Woodchat Shrike, that in many regions it
is somewhat rare, and it costs a good deal of trouble to obtain a good bird. "It sings
louder than the Red-backed, or the Lesser Grey Shrike, has moreover a certain
roughness in its voice, which somewhat detracts from its imitations, and thus
prejudices their distinctness." Possibly it was this which led Seebohm to think
that the cries of this species were imitations of rapacious birds. The mimicry
practised by the Woodchat must, however, be fairly good, inasmuch as it was
noticed even in Bechstein's time; as pointed out by the late Charles Witchell
(Evolution of Bird song, p. 174).

Herr Rausch considers that, as a cage bird, the Woodchat belongs to the
second order of merit (Gefiederte Welt, 1891, p. 499). Although rarer than the
Red-backed Shrike, there is not the least doubt that its song is neither so pure
nor so perfect in its imitative power; and, when one has to keep a species in a
separate cage, on account of its domineering, spiteful, or even dangerous character,
it is most satisfactory to get something in exchange for the extra trouble required
to preserve it in health: therefore, if I already possessed Lanius collurio, I certainly
should not covet its rarer relative.
