Family-AMPELIDÆ.

THE WAXWING.

Ampelis garrulus, LINN.

AN abundant though irregular winter visitor to our islands, the Waxwing, says
Seebohm, "is almost a circumpolar bird, breeding in the pine regions of
both hemispheres at or near the Arctic circle." "Throughout Central
Europe it is a tolerable regular winter visitor. It occurs accidently on Heligoland,
and occasionally strays as far west as France, and as far south as Lombardy and
Turkey, but has not yet been recorded from Spain or Greece. It winters in South
Siberia, occasionally straying as far as Turkestan, Mongolia, North China, and the
north island of Japan. In America its winter range extends as far south as Lakes
Michigan and Erie; but it appears to be only an accidental straggler further east,
and it is doubtful if it has ever occurred west of the Rocky Mountains."

In Great Britain the Waxwing has been most frequently met with in the
northern and eastern counties; Mr. Frohawk tells me that in the winter of 1867-8
a flock of seven visited a small plantation at Brisley, in Norfolk; but in England
it has from time to time been observed in almost every county, whilst in Ireland
it has been but rarely obtained, excepting towards the end of 1903 when a good
many visited the island and twenty were shot; its visits to Scotland have been
tolerably frequent, extending even to the islands of Skye, Orkney and Shetland,
it has twice been recorded from the Outer Hebrides.

The upper surface of the adult male Waxwing is pale rosy-brown, gradually
changing to ash-grey on the rump and upper tail-coverts, and into chestnut on the
sides of the crest and forehead; a narrow frontal band, the lores, and a streak
from the back of the eye black; wings and tail almost black, the wing-coverts, the
inner webs of the primaries, and outer webs of the secondaries tipped with white,
the latter tipped with wax-like vermilion points, the outside webs of the primaries
tipped with yellow, joining the white tips of the inner webs so as to form V-like
markings; tail feathers broadly tipped with yellow; under surface rosy-brown,
shading into chestnut on the cheeks; a white streak at the base of the lower
mandible; front of throat and chin black; centre of belly whitish; under tail-
coverts chestnut; bill and feet black; iris hazel. The female is slightly duller,
