boiled egg, hemp-seed, bread-crumbs, carrots, potatoes, and ants' eggs; they drink
a great deal, but seldom wash, and I have more than once seen a Waxwing delib-
erately eat its own fæces, though it was abundantly supplied with many varieties
of food; none of these birds ever became tame with me, and I shall certainly
never buy any of them again."

Seebohm gives them much the same character:-"They were most voracious
eaters, and the cage required cleaning several times a day. They were very active
and restless, and even when perched at rest seemed to be continually moving their
heads. If alarmed they would stretch out their necks to almost double the usual
length."

On the other hand Swaysland (Cassell's Cage-birds, p. 340) says:-"It is
easily tamed, and in the aviary is docile and quiet. It should be fed upon German
paste, sponge-cake, a little hard-boiled egg, Juniper berries, soaked grocers' currants,
or any other soft-skinned fruit." I think it quite likely that, associated with birds
of its own size in an aviary, the Waxwing would become far more easily reconciled
to captivity, would eat less, bathe more frequently, and keep in better health, than
in a cage: moreover, I should certainly not recommend either raw meat or
grocers' currants to be given to it as articles of food.

FAMILY MUSCICAPIDÆ.

THIS large family of birds was not even regarded by Seebohm as a distinct
Subfamily, but was included by him in the Turdinæ; yet it forms a very
characteristic group: the bills of Flycatchers are somewhat flattened and
broad at the base, compressed and somewhat curved towards the point; the rictal
bristles which, in insectivorous birds serve to prevent the escape of winged insects
from the base of the bill, are very strongly developed, and numerous in this family.

The Flycatchers, as their name indicates, are rapid flyers, and consequently
have long pointed wings; their eyes also are large and full; they perch mostly
on trees, very rarely descending to the earth; their feet, as might be anticipated,
are small, the middle toe being considerably longer than the lateral ones.
