The Spotted Flycatcher rarely reaches us before May; but, nevertheless is in
no hurry to go to nest; the earliest date at which I have taken its eggs was on
the 30th of that month, and they are rarely obtained before June.

As proof that birds are sometimes unable to recognize their own eggs, the
following fact (already recorded in my Handbook of British Oology) is of interest:
On the 4th June, 1878, I removed three eggs from a rather small nest of the
Spotted Flycatcher formed in the hollow top of a tree stump in a small plantation
of hazels. I substituted three hazel-nuts for the eggs, and these completely filled
the cavity of the nest. On the 8th of June I returned and found the hen sitting:
she had ejected one of the hazel-nuts to make room for a fourth egg.

Respecting the notes of this species, Seebohm says:-"It is very widely and
popularly believed that the Spotted Flycatcher is not gifted with any powers of
song; but this is an error. His song is heard but rarely, it is true, and is uttered
in such a low tone as to be scarcely heard a few yards away. It is given forth
both when the bird is sitting at rest and when fluttering in the air after insects.
It consists of a few rambling notes, not unlike part of the Whinchat's song. The
monotonous call-note may perhaps be best expressed by the letters zt, zt; it is
uttered in rapid succession from one perching-place, and every now and then the
tail is jerked to and fro with graceful motion. Sometimes a second syllable is
added to the call-note, which then sounds like zt-chick."

I think that Seebohm is incorrect in this last statement: in 1894 I had a
family of young Spotted Flycatchers in my garden for over a week, and I found
that their call to their parents was zt-chick, and the answer of the parents was zt.
I never heard an adult bird use the longer call.

The food of the Spotted Flycatcher in the summer months consists of insects,
spiders, and centipedes, but in the autumn it is said to eat the berries of the
mountain-ash; much of its food is obtained on the wing, either by repeated sallies
into the air, by hawking low down over the meadows, or hovering in front of old
walls, or manure heaps.

As this species rarely has eggs before the beginning of June, and usually
leaves this country in September, it is not surprising that it is single brooded.

Mr. Gurney's experience of the perseverance with which this species adheres
to a building site was published many years since in the "Zoologist"; but never-
theless is sufficiently interesting to bear repeating here; he says:-"About the
end of June last, a Spotted Flycatcher began to build a nest over the door of the
lodge at the entrance of my grounds. The woman who lives in the lodge, not
wishing the bird to build there, destroyed the commencement of the nest; every
day for a week the bird placed new materials on the same ledge over the door,
