Family-MUSCICAPIDÆ.

THE PIED FLYCATCHER.

Muscicapa atricapilla, LINN.

RESPECTING the distribution of this species outside Great Britain, one
cannot do better than quote Howard Saunders:-"A wanderer to the
Faroes, the Pied Flycatcher breeds regularly up to 69° N. lat. in Scan-
dinavia, 65° in Finland, and about 60° in Northern Russia to the Ural Mountains;
southward, in suitable wooded localities, throughout the greater part of Europe,
down to the centre of Spain; and eastward as far as Palestine; while it has been
met with in Northern Persia. In Algeria it is said to be a resident species, its
migrations extending to the Canaries, and down the west side of Africa to the
Gambia, as well as on the east side to Egypt.

In Great Britain this species is far rarer, and much more local than the
Spotted Flycatcher, but especially during the breeding season: although nests
have from time to time been obtained in many of the southern counties of England,
it principally affects the western counties, Wales, and the north, but more partic-
ularly the Lake district; it is said to occur annually in Norfolk, and has occurred
in Rutland and Lincolnshire. In Scotland, and especially in the northern counties, it
is considerably rarer than in England, and in Ireland it has been very seldom
met with.

The adult male in breeding-plumage has the upper parts black, greyer on the
rump, and browner on the wings; the forehead, central coverts, outer borders of
secondaries, and under parts white; bill and feet black; iris dark brown. The
female differs from the male in the browner colouring of the upper parts, and all
the white areas with a buffish stain. The male after its autumn moult more nearly
approaches the female, inasmuch as the black colouring becomes brownish. Young
in nestling plumage have the upper parts spotted with buff, and the under parts
with dark-brown.

The Pied Flycatcher arrives on our coasts towards the end of April, and the
first eggs may usually be obtained by about the middle of the following month,
although some pairs nidificate several weeks later. Unlike its relative the Spotted
Flycatcher, it always nests in a hole, either in a tree, a rock, wall, or bridge,
