(especially when built over water); deserted nesting-holes of Woodpeckers or Tits
are sometimes utilized : it haunts groves of oak, beech, aspen, or chestnut, in
preference to dense wood; although, according to Dixon, it may sometimes be met
with in the latter situation. Lord Lilford says that "the nest is generally situated
in the hole of a pollard willow, or other tree, often in an old wall; in fact, very
much in the sort of locality that we should look for a nest of the Common Red-
start."

The nest is somewhat loosely constructed of dry bents, rootlets, and a little
moss; the lining being formed of wool, feathers, and sometimes hair. The eggs
vary in number from four to eight, five to six being usual. As Lord Lilford
observes "Yarrell records an instance of eight in a nest, but, from my acquaintance
with this species in Spain, I should cousider that number as very exceptional."
The colouring is always a very pale blue and unspotted, there is a slight variation
in depth of tint, but otherwise the only modifications in the eggs of this bird are
in size and outline, depending much upon the age and condition of health of the
parent bird.

W. Warde Fowler in his charming "Summer Studies of Birds and Books,"
gives a most delightful account of the Pied Flycatcher, which is well worth quoting
in full, if only space would permit; but I must content myself with an extract :-
" On the Continent I have always seen him in just such places as he loves in
Wales, among the larger timber of a Swiss mountain-side, or on the forest slopes
of the Taunus range. Just as the trout loves swiftly-running streams, or as the
Wood-wren is sure to be heard where the oak is the prevailing tree, so there are
certain spots which you instinctively feel that this bird ought to have chosen for
his habitation, and if you are in the right district you may fairly lay a wager
that he will be found there. Such a spot, on the edge of the beech forests of
Wiesbaden, will always remain in very clear outline in my memory, for it was
there I first heard the song of this bird. It is very seldom now that I hear a
song that is quite new to me. If it were not that so many of our songsters sing
all too short a time, and that when they tune up one by one for the orchestra of
the spring season each instrument touches the ear with the fresh delight of recog-
nition, I might feel as much at the end of my tether as the mountaineer who has
no more peaks to climb. But this song was not only new, but wonderfully sweet
and striking. 'Something like a Redstart's' say the books, and this is not untrue,
so far as it represents the outward form, so to speak, of the song-the quickness
or shortness of notes, the rapid variations of pitch. But no one who has once
accustomed his ear to the very peculiar timbre of the voice of either kind of Red-
start will mistake for it the song of the Pied Flycatcher. My notes, taken on the
