Berwickshire one, and Yorkshire one, which last was shot at Scarborough, October
23rd, 1889, the same day of the month as the Irish example in 1887. Since
that date one was shot at Wells in 1900; a specimen is recorded for 1904, a
third for 1905, three for 1906, all from Norfolk; three were seen in Yorkshire
in 1907; in Cheshire one was seen in June 1903; in the Shetlands several were
seen and three shot in 1906. It would therefore appear that this little Flycatcher
is likely to occur, especially late in the autumn, upon our coasts; and, inasmuch
as one example on an average has lost its life, in addition to those seen, every
two years (taking the dates from 1863 to 1907), the importance of admitting the
species into the present work will be recognized.

This elegant little species has a curious resemblance to our Robin, and Seebohm
expresses the opinion that it is " a connecting-link between the Robins and the
Flycatchers"; his description of the bird is so satisfactory that, in the present
instance, I shall quote it in full:-'"The Red-breasted Flycatcher has the general
colour of the upper parts, except the crown, nape, and sides of the head and neck
which are bluish-grey, olive-brown ; central tail-feathers blackish-brown ; the outer
ones white at base, and broadly tipped with blackish-brown; throat and breast
orange-chestnut; rest of underparts white, suffused on the flanks and under tail-
coverts with buff; beak brown, paler at the base; irides hazel; legs, toes, and
claws dark brown. The female in general colouration resembles the male, except
that the rich orange-chestnut throat is replaced by buff, and the bluish-grey is
wanting on the head and sides of the neck.

Males of the year scarcely differ from the female, and breed in the following
spring in immature plumage (M. minuta). In the second year the chestnut appears
on the throat (M. leucura); in the third year the chestnut appears on the
upper breast (M. parva); and in the fourth year it extends also on to the lower
breast" (M. hyperythra). "Young in first plumage are spotted on the breast and
upper parts, as in all the allied species."

I believe that this is by no means the only species which has received a
different name for each plumage: I have already noted * that examples of Munia
atricapilla which I received in young plumage in 1887, did not acquire the distinc-
tive black ventral band until the second moult; but a more curious change occurred
in the spring of 1896, when one of my old examples of Quelea quelea assumed
the breeding-plumage of Q. russi, the black mask being wholly lost, and I have
since proved that the little Cardinal (Paroaria cervicalis) is only an incomplete
plumage of P. capitata.

This species appears to be more essentially a forest-haunting bird than our
