black, slightly tinted with green; bill black; feet horn-yellowish, but densely
covered with fine white feathering; iris hazel. Female similar to the male;
perhaps a trifle smaller. Young birds are smoky-brown above, the rump and
under parts sordid white; the innermost secondaries tipped, and most of the quills
edged with white; the tail shorter and less forked.

Apart from its colouring, this species is easily distinguished on the wing from
the Swallow by the absence of the long tapering points to the outside tail feathers;
but the white rump is also usually very conspicuous.

The Martin arrives in this country about a week later than the Swallow; that
is to say between the middle and end of April, according to the nature of the
season; it usually leaves again between the end of September and beginning of
October, though stragglers have been known to linger even to December.

In its habits and haunts this species much resembles the Swallow: why
Seebohm went out of his way to assert that "its legs are too short to allow it to
walk" I do not understand; for it certainly can not only walk, but run nimbly
for short distances, without erecting its wings; though, if in a hurry, it uses its
wings to assist it in taking surprising leaps. The call-note of the Martin is a
thin whistled sound, something like szeet; the song a modulated twittering.

The House-Martin builds its nest against a wall, and immediately below and
up to a projecting ledge; rectangular eaves of houses are preferred, but sometimes
projecting bricks on railway-and other arches are used, or ledges of rock; the
nest being completely closed in with the exception of a semi-circular or demi-
semi-circular hole at the top, and usually in the centre.

The nest is formed of mud without, and with hardly any admixture of grass
or hair; it is consequently so much more brittle than that of the Swallow, that,
with the greatest care, using a long sharp table-knife, I never succeeded in obtain-
ing a perfect specimen; indeed most nests fall into fragments at the first attempt
to detach them, leaving nothing but the lining with the eggs in the hand held
below as a support: this lining consists of dry grass, and sometimes, but not
invariably, a few feathers. The eggs number from four to six; in form they are
generally elongated ovals, pure white, and immaculate, but appearing rosy when
fresh-laid; they are smooth and thin shelled, moderately glossy, but not exactly
shiny.

When attempting in vain to secure a perfect nest of this species, it has often
surprised me that the mere weight of the nestlings does not burst the fragile mud
shell; the glutinous saliva of the bird is supposed to assist in uniting the mud pellets
in the first instance, but one would expect a driving rain to be more than sufficient
to counteract that slight advantage: why this species so rarely uses hay and hair
