to strengthen its walls is another puzzle, for the additional stability which it gives
to a Swallow's nest is so considerable; that, taking a metal dipper filled with hay
to the top of a chimney, I have only had to lower the edge of the metal pan
below the nest and jerk it upwards, to secure the nest uninjured.

The food of the Martin consists wholly of insects, which it obtains on the
wing; in confinement, however, it readily feeds upon the usual soft food. In the
first week of July, 1891, my colleague, Mr. W. R. Ogilvie Grant obtained a nest
of four House-Martins about a week old, and gave them to me. Following out
the mistaken notions of many aviculturists I at first fed these young birds partly
upon raw rump-steak finely minced; but I also gave them a mixture of carefully
selected ants' cocoons, and preserved yolk of egg, ground up in a mortar with
maizena wafers, the whole carefully mixed together, and slightly damped. Upon
this diet all four attained their full size, after which they refused the raw meat,
but continued to eat the mixture greedily.

I kept these birds in a basket filled with hay, and several times each day they
were taken out and encouraged to fly about the room; but now they began to
object to return to the close confinement of their basket; therefore I purchased a
large cage, hung up a cocoa-nut nest lined with flannel in one corner, and taught
them to retire to it every evening, or whenever they appeared to feel the cold.
At the end of a month the Martins were able to feed themselves, and, like all the
Hirundinidæ when accustomed to soft food, they ate far more than was good for
them. I now tried a change of diet, giving "Abrahams' Food for Nightingales,"
damped ants' cocoons, cut up mealworms, and flies; but it was of no use, for three
of them soon died of plethora, and probably, in part, owing to insufficient exercise,
although we did our best to encourage them to exert themselves in various ways.
One of our plans was to put all four on the ground at one end of the room, then
run to the other end and call them: this was the signal for a most comical race,
in which at first they ran at a surprising rate though very awkwardly; but, as
they became excited in the race, used their wings, and finished with a series of
astounding leaps, finally flying on to our arms, and either running up our sleeves,
nestling down in the hollowed palms of our hands, or perching on our shoulders.
My son used often to hold one up in his hand, and it invariably sprang up and
pecked his nose, but only one of the four would do this.

Although naturally so greedy, our Martins would always leave their food
and fly to us when called; they could not, therefore, be accused, like most cage-
birds, of cupboard-love; they were also unlike other birds in their fondness for
being handled and stroked.

My fourth bird lived until the morning of September 18th, and became a
