FAMILY FRINGILLIDÆ.

THIS family consists of a number of hard-billed, largely seed-eating, birds.
Howard Saunders only distinguishes these as Finches (Fringillinœ) and
Buntings (Emberizinœ); but the Catalogue of Birds, of the British Museum,
regards the Grosbeaks as constituting a third Subfamily (Coccothraustinœ). Seebohm
agreed with Howard Saunders in uniting the latter Subfamily to the typical
Finches; but, in my opinion, there is more diﬃculty in distinguishing between
some of the foreign Buntings, and Grosbeaks, than between the latter and the true
Finches. I would, in any case, rather err on the side of too much regard for
structural diﬀerences, than on the opposite side.

The Fringillidœ have the tenth primary, which is often well-developed, con-
cealed by a longer covert; it has thus escaped observation and been asserted to
be non-existent; the bill is hard and conical, and is (to my mind) better described
by the term “beak”; the Finches feed their young from the crop, regurgitating
the food when partially digested: naturally during the breeding season, I believe
all are more or less insectivorous, although seed forms their staple food: in
conﬁnement, however, many of the Finches will live for many years upon seed
alone.

The Coccothraustinœ, or Grosbeaks, of which the Hawﬁnches are typical, are
characterized by a very heavy and powerful beak, with hardly any angle to the
chin; the nasal bones produced backwards beyond the front margin of the eye-
socket, (cf. R. B. Sharpe, Cat. Birds, Vol. XII).

The Fringillinœ, or true Finches, the type of which is our English Chaﬃnch,
usually have a somewhat less powerful beak, with the angle of the chin slightly
more deﬁned, but still very feebly shown; the mandibles almost terminating at
the same point; the nasal bones not produced backwards beyond the front margin
of the eye-socket.

The Emberizinœ, or Buntings, of which our Yellow Ammer may be considered
typical, have a well-marked angle to the chin; the lower mandible terminating
well within the upper one, and not completely closing in the centre of the cutting
edge; the more typical Buntings also have a hard horny knob on the palate, and
a compression of the lower mandible to meet it; they also walk when on the
earth, and are largely insectivorous (in which respects they approach the Chaﬃnch
and Brambling among the true Finches): many Buntings, however, are not walking
birds.

The Fringillidœ are favourite cage-birds, chieﬂy on account of the ease with
which their food can be provided.
