Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-COCCOTHRAUSTINÆ.

THE GREENFINCH.

Ligurinus chloris, LINN.

OF the geographical distribution of the Greenfinch, Dr. Sharpe says that it
inhabits:-"Europe generally; the countries bordering the Mediterranean;
accidental in Madeira; extending eastwards in Persia and North-western
Turkestan."

In Great Britain this common and well-known Grosbeak is generally distri-
buted, breeding in all suitable localities; but to the Orkneys, Hebrides, and
Shetlands, it is chiefly an autumn and winter visitant, though N. B. Kinnear, in
1907, recorded the fact that it breeds at Stornoway and has probably done so for
some time.

The Greenfinch varies considerably as regards brilliance of colouring; the birds
of the spring immigration being stated to be much paler and brighter in colouring
than the resident birds: the latter are largely added to in the autumn, by the
advent of immense flocks which arrive in October on our eastern coasts.

The adult male above is yellowish-olive, more yellow on the forehead and
rump; greater coverts grey; primary coverts edged with yellowish; primaries
greyish-brown, edged with yellow; secondaries with paler outer webs; tail feathers
yellow at the base, blackish at the ends, the central ones largely blackish; lores
blackish; a broad superciliary yellow stripe; ear-coverts grey; sides of face and
cheeks yellow, the latter somewhat greyish; under parts yellow, becoming whitish
on the abdomen; flanks greyish; beak flesh-coloured, darker towards the tip; feet
horn-brown; iris hazel. The female is similar in pattern to the male, but slightly
smaller, much duller and browner, the feathers of the head and mantle with dark
shaft-streaks; the underparts also are less yellow. After the moult the margins
of the feathers are paler, and the yellow less bright; but in the spring, as with
many other species, the tints become purer and more lively. The young are very
like the mother bird, but the feathers are somewhat more streaked; they acquire
the adult plumage after their first moult; but the colouring does not attain its
greatest brilliancy in the first year.

During the summer months the Greenfinch is a somewhat skulking bird, and
