chiefly haunts the borders of woods, parks, plantations, shrubberies, gardens, and
dense hedgerows; but in the winter it may often be seen feeding in company with
Sparrows, Chaffinches, and Buntings, in stubble-fields, farms, and gardens. Except-
ing when feeding its young, the song may frequently be heard; it is always bright
and clear, and some individuals sing remarkably well, reminding one somewhat of
a Norwich Canary; only, unfortunately the song is always interrupted at the end
of a phrase or two by a harsh zshweer, and terminated with the same disagreeable
note. The call-note is a sound like tirri, or a shrill sharp chirp, somewhat resemb-
ling the chink of the Chaffinch; the call of defiance is the same as the harsh note
introduced into its song; the call of the young for food resembles that of many
Finches-chiwi or chirri.

The nest is very frequently placed in hawthorn hedges; indeed I once found
three nests of this bird within a distance of two yards, two of them being only a
foot apart, and all three at a height of about five feet from the ground; it is also
commonly placed in clumps of tall furze-bushes; I have also found it in laurus-
tinus bushes, in ivy on walls, in the forks of low trees, chiefly yews and spruce-firs,
and a friend found me a nest among the twigs sprouting from the stump of a
branch, cut from a tall oak (about eight feet from the ground) this being placed
at a greater elevation than any other nest of the species which I have met with;
Seebohm, however, speaks of the Greenfinch sometimes selecting a site "fifty feet
or more from the ground, in a fork of an elm, or even in a cavity in the trunk."

The nest varies considerably, the thickness of the walls being from one to
two inches, and usually very firmly, though occasionally loosely constructed; the
depth of some nests is also double that of others; as regards materials I
cannot do better than quote my own descriptions of eight selected nests from my
"Handbook of British Oology";-"1.-An outer framework of rough twigs and
coarse roots, the walls of fine roots and green moss, and the lining of fine reddish
fibrous roots. 2.-Of coarse, half-decayed straws, bents, and roots, thickly lined
with fine root-fibre. 3.-Of slender withered grass-straws, and a mass of
greyish wool, felted together, and lined with a few black horse-hairs. 4.-
Of sticks, roots, and moss externally; of wool, vegetable fibre, and less moss,
inwardly, lined with a few black horse-hairs. 5.-Of coarse plaited roots
externally; of finer roots, moss, slender white hairs, and a little wool, matted
together inwardly, and lined with a few black horse-hairs. 6.-Of green moss,
with a few twigs and roots, and thickly lined with cocoanut fibre and a few black
hairs. 7.-Loosely constructed of green moss and spiders' webs, with a few twigs;
lined with vegetable fibre, and a few black hairs. 8.-Of twice the usual depth,
(like a nest within a nest) formed of green moss, wool, and fibrous roots, in patches,
