which give it an extremely soft and variegated appearance; a few twigs outside,
and a little hair in the lining." In form the nest is usually a fairly regular cup;
but the nest taken from sprouting oak-twigs, noted above, is shaped like a sabot.
The eggs number from four to six, usually five, and vary in ground-tint from
greenish to pinkish-white, rarely to pale green, or buffish; the markings are, more
often than not, chiefly confined to the larger end, and consist of spots, comma-
shaped markings, irregular lines occasionally, and blotches of pitchy brown, or
blackish, with underlying spots, and sometimes large blotches of sienna-reddish, or
reddish-chocolate. In some eggs the markings are principally confined to a zone
near the larger end, and sometimes they are scattered here and there like fly-marks
over the entire surface: the form is by no means constant, a shortish oval type
being common, though all gradations may be found between this and a long
almond or even spindle-shaped type.

The Greenfinch will pair freely, both in cage and aviary, with the Canary; and
crosses between it and the common Linnet in a wild state, are probably the most
frequent and the best authenticated of the numberless well-known wild hybrids
which have been recorded. In confinement the Greenfinch breeds as readily as a
Canary, and brings up its young much better, not attempting to pluck them (like
that foolish bird) after they have left the nest. It is very pugnacious in the
breeding-season, dashing straight at its opponent like a bull at a gate.

One year I had a cock Greenfinch in an aviary with a pair of Canaries, and
of course, the Grosbeak fancied it could easily dispose of its slim opponent, and
take possession of his wife: so, with a harsh defiant zshweer, it charged blindly at
him: the Canary took little apparent notice of the Greenfinch until it was within
a foot or two, then with a graceful little curving flight he alighted on its back,
and plucked out a beakful of feathers. This manæuvre was successfully repeated
every time that the more powerful bird attacked him; so that at length the
blundering bully came to consider that discretion was the better part of valour.

I found that a pair of Greenfinches in an aviary built in an ordinary nest-box
hung upon the wires, building and feeding exactly as a Canary would: but not
attempting to incubate until the third egg was deposited: they not only hatched
all their eggs, but brought up their family without one failure.

In the winter, especially in severe weather, this bird may readily be caught
in the ordinary cage-trap, especially if a decoy bird is placed in the cage, and a
few sunflower seeds upon the platform. The larger Grosbeaks are all fond of
these seeds, and it is no uncommon sight in spacious gardens to see the ripe
sunflower heads covered with Greenfinches busily at work extracting every seed.

I once knew two old ladies who were great breeders of Canaries: on one
