nest itself is built of dead grasses and bents, and the lining consists of rootlets
and hair: altogether it is so large that the Wood-Pigeon has been known to add
a few twigs to it, and thus adapt it to its own purposes.* The eggs number
from four to six, though five is the usual complement; they are pale bluish or
buffish-green in colour, and vary in pattern between that of the Common-and
Reed-Buntings, the surface spots, blotches, and streaks being deep pitch-brown,
with underlying spots of lilacine-grey: in size and form they correspond pretty
closely with eggs of the Common Bunting.

The flight of the Hawfinch is rapid and powerful, somewhat undulating when
the bird is passing from tree to tree, but more direct when long distances are
covered. On the wing it often utters a peculiar clicking sound, a kind of tic,
which may also sometimes be heard when the bird is caged.

The food consists largely of seeds, those of the hornbean being much relished;
but when feeding its young it devours insects, especially caterpillars, and probably
buds; later in the year peas, cherry-kernels, beech-mast, yew-berries, and haws
are eaten. In confinement sunflower-seeds, hemp, oats, beech-nuts, canary, and
millet may be given.

Personally I have had but little experience of the Hawfinch as a cage-bird.
On September 14th, 1893, a birdcatcher brought me a specimen which had flown
into his nets: he was evidently afraid to handle it, and cautioned me against
attempting to touch it without gloves, saying that its bite was frightful and drew
blood; however I soon had the bird in my hand and caged it; but, although I
placed the cage on a high shelf, the Hawfinch never became tame, but so wore
the feathers of its wings and tail by its efforts to escape, that when after a few
weeks of captivity it died, the skin was not worth preserving. I am, therefore,
convinced that the Hawfinch should either be turned into a large aviary, or be
hand-reared.

Speaking of a pair taken from the nest and brought to him in 1880, the late Lord
Lilford says:-"My two caged Hawfinches * * readily devoured meal-worms and
house-flies, but I imagine that this is an unnatural and acquired taste." In this
I think his Lordship was in error, for there can be nothing unnatural in a bird
largely reared upon partly digested caterpillars, subsequently eating mealworms.
Ripe apples would probably be a welcome addition to its prison-diet; for, according
to Mr. Horatio Fillmer, of Brighton, the Black-tailed Hawfinch is especially
fond of fruit.

As a pet the Hawfinch has but little to recommend it; it is not a pretty
