Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-FRINGILLINÆ.

THE COMMON CROSSBILL.

Loxia curvirostra, LINN.

ACCORDING to Dr. R. Bowdler Sharpe, this species inhabits "the greater
part of Europe and Northern Asia, to Japan and North China, Himalayas,
North America as far as Mexico.

In Great Britain, the Crossbill is principally confined during the summer
months to the pine forests of Scotland; though it has bred in several of the
eastern counties of Ireland, and in Tipperary, as well as in North Wales and
some of the counties of England: here, however, it is most frequently met with
during the winter, sometimes in flocks, though often only in small parties.

In colouring this species nearly resembles the Two-barred Crossbill, excepting
in the absence of the white tips to the greater and median wing-coverts: perhaps
the male is a little less brilliant in colour, and the female a little more orange;
but as these birds vary in these respects with age, it is not safe to speak positively:
one thing is certain-that, in captivity the red colouring is entirely lost after the
first moult; but whether permanently it is not safe to say without experimenting,
inasmuch as many birds, notably the American Nonpareil (Cyanospiza ciris) lose
their red colouring in the same manner; yet the Nonpareil, at any rate if
exposed in an airy and sunny aviary for a year or two, and supplied with plenty
of insect-food, reproduces the red colouring. The mandibles of the young bird
are straight, the lower mandible being covered by the cutting edges of the upper;
but in the adult birds it curves upwards towards the tip, that of the male (in
the ordinary variety) barely reaching to a level with the culmen of the upper
mandible, on the inside if viewed from above; that of the female, which has much
the longer, less arched, and more slender beak, projecting well above the culmen
on the outside. This different crossing of the mandibles in the sexes probably
enables the male to feed the female; otherwise it is difficult to understand its
object.*

The Crossbill is an irregular migrant; consequently if food is scarce in the
north, it wanders southward to search for sustenance there: in winter the species
