is more gregarious than in summer, though even during the latter season Seebohm
tells us that "small parties of males may be seen seeking food in company.
They are very early breeders; and fresh eggs are usually found in February and
March. Eggs have been taken in April and May; but these are probably laid
by birds whose first nests have been destroyed by their numerous enemies, or by
heavy falls of snow, and are not second broods, as some ornithologists have
supposed. If these birds are successful in rearing a brood, the family-party,
appear at once to commence their gipsy life. If they meet a similar family-party,
they appear to fraternise at once, and form the nucleus of a flock, which is some-
times seen far from home as early as June, wandering in search of food. It is a
very pretty sight to see these flocks feeding upon the berries of the mountain-ash,*
or stripping the larch or spruce trees of their cones. In winter they are exceed-
ingly tame, and will allow the observer to approach very near and watch them
without showing any signs of alarm. They are very active, and when busily
engaged in feeding, place themselves in all sorts of positions, like a Tit or a
Willow-Wren. They pass from tree to tree with strong but undulating flight,
continually calling to each other. In late winter or early spring the males have
a low warbling song, which reminds one somewhat of that of the Starling. The
female is said also to sing nearly as well as the male." (Hist. British Birds,
Vol. II, pp. 32-33).

I have never heard the Crossbill sing, but should imagine that it would not
differ greatly from that of the so-called "Pine-Grosbeak" (when recording probably;
for hitherto I have only heard the latter utter a little bubbling chirrup, consisting
of six or eight notes); in any case it must be a poor song, if we are to trust
the judgment of our musical friends the Germans.

The call-note, and the only note which I ever heard proceed from the beak
of the Crossbill, is chip, chip; chip, chip; chip, chip; repeated incessantly, from
morning to night, with the monotonous regularity of a pendulum: but Seebohm
declares that the bird sometimes says tsup, or tsop; in which I think he must
have allowed his imagination to lead him astray, as it certainly has when he
likens the cry to those of Chaffinches and Linnets.

The horizontal branch of a fir near the trunk, or at a distance from the
trunk, or the forking branches of a pine, sometimes not more than five feet from
the ground, are occasionally selected as building sites; but it is stated that
apparently the favourite position is almost at the top of the tree, in the centre of
the forking branches which thus form a sort of frame in which to support it.
