The nest itself is built after the pattern of that of the Bullfinch, a foundation of
twigs of Scotch fir, enclosing a cup-shaped structure of dry grass and lichen;
the lining being formed of somewhat finer materials, mixed with moss, wool, or
feathers.

The eggs number from four to five, but rarely exceed four; they vary in
colouring from greenish-blue to greyish-white, and are spotted, speckled, and
sometimes almost streaked with dark-brown; there are also underlying spots of
pale reddish-brown, and the larger end is occasionally dusted with greyish. The
specimen figured on our plate is from the collection of A. B. Farn, Esq.

Whilst feeding their young the Crossbill feeds largely upon caterpillars, and
other larvæ, also the chrysalides of a little moth, as well as buds of trees; but
later, as the fir- and pine-cones ripen, it extracts the seeds with its powerful man-
dibles and feasts upon them. Berries of various kinds are largely eaten, and
Seebohm says that the Crossbill is very fond of apples, but this is not strictly
correct, for it simply tears the fruit to pieces and drops it, eating only the pips;
I frequently observed the destructive act in the case of a pair of caged Crossbills
once in my possession, but my birds never ate the pips.

Lord Lilford (Birds of Northamptonshire, Vol. I, pp. 205-6) observes:-"We
have generally found the Crossbills very tame and easy of approach, and a flock
of these birds, busily employed in feeding on the seeds of a snow-laden fir-tree,
is a beautiful and most interesting sight. Their actions in quest of food very
much resemble those of the smaller Parrots as they cling to and clamber about
the large cones, from which they extract the seeds with wonderful rapidity. In
confinement we have found this species, though it soon becomes perfectly tame,
invariably very restless, and constantly climbing over all parts of its cage as if
seeking to escape. As above mentioned, fir-seeds are the natural and favourite
food; but these birds will readily feed on hemp-seed, and almost any of our
common berries." "Although we have found our tame birds very fond of the
pips of apples, we never could induce them to extract the said pips from the fruit
for themselves."*

My own experience of the Crossbill as a cage-bird agrees very closely with
the above as regards its disposition and behaviour: the following are my notes on
this species: In the winter of 1886-7, my friend Mr. J. Johnston gave me a pair
of Crossbills, and within a week the cock-bird would take sunflower seeds from
my fingers. These birds are quiet but amusing creatures, much like Parrots in
their actions. I placed their seed in one of the ordinary tin hoppers to prevent
their wasting it, but in two days they had found out how to lift up the lid at
