Family—FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily—FRINGILLINÆ.

THE BULLFINCH.

Pyrrhula europœa, VIEILL.

DR. SHARPE gives the distribution of this species as follows:—“Western,
Central, and Southern Europe. The eastern range is undeﬁned, but it
apparently ranges as far as Central Russia.” The larger race known to
aviculturists as “Russian Bullﬁnch” is regarded by the Doctor as a distinct
species, which he calls “Pyrrhula pyrrhula.” I must say I do not approve of
this adoption of the generic name for the species, and should prefer to follow
Brehm in calling it Pyrrhula major: it occurs in Northern and Eastern Europe,
and in Siberia. Of late years a good many examples of the larger northern race
have visited the Shetland Islands, and in 1894 two were obtained in Yorkshire.

The Bullﬁnch, or Bloodolf, as it is called in Norfolk, is pretty generally
distributed in all well-wooded districts throughout the British Isles.

The male bird has the upper part of the head to below the eye and back‐
ward to the nape, as well as the chin, glossy blue-black; the mantle and back
bluish ash-grey; the rump white; the larger wing-coverts black, broadly tipped
with white; ﬂights and tail black, but the primaries somewhat ashy on the inner
webs and the second to the ﬁfth with narrow whitish border to the emarginate
portions: the outer web of the innermost secondary largely suﬀused with red:
the sides of the face, neck, and under surface bright salmon-red, the vent and
under tail-coverts white; beak, black; feet dark brown, changing to ﬂesh colour
in conﬁnement; iris brown. The female is slightly duller in colouring on the
upper parts, and the whole of the red is replaced by soft Dove-brown. The young
most nearly resemble the female, but have no black on the head, and a sordid
white wing-bar.

It has often been said that feeding entirely on hemp in conﬁnement has the eﬀect
of rendering the plumage black, just as that of the Canary is altered to orange-
vermilion by extensive cayenne feeding: if this were true to call black Bullﬁnches
rare feathered varieties (as is sometimes done at bird shows) would be absurd:
as a matter of fact the assertion is probably based largely upon a guess at the
