in one of my aviaries built a typical nest (in August) in a small yew-tree; she
laid four eggs and sat steadily for a week, when she deserted them and died the
following day: examination showed acute inflammation of the cloaca; two of the
eggs, which I put under a Canary, were hatched but not reared.

The natural song of the Bullfinch is very poor, reminding one of a Jew's-
harp; but hand-reared birds can, with the help of a musical-box, be taught to
whistle entire tunes very prettily. The call-note is a soft plaintive whistle,
difficult to write down, as it commences without any initial consonant; the word
diu which has been frequently used to express it, bears no resemblance whatever
to the sound; hoo would be nearer, but is too abrupt; wheo is a better rendering.

In the winter the Bullfinch becomes much less retiring, and more confiding
in its habits, frequenting gardens and orchards: and in its love for buds, par-
ticularly of fruit-trees, often doing considerable mischief: father, mother, and family,
sometimes taking up positions on the same tree, and going to work systematically.
Attempts have often been made by well-meaning Ornithologists to defend this
action on the part of the Bullfinch, by declaring (without a particle of evidence
in favour of the assertion) that the birds are in reality the fruit-grower's best
friends; inasmuch as they only select those buds which contain maggots. Such
utter nonsense could only be written by those who have not studied birds in
captivity, and in large aviaries containing living shrubs and creepers.

Seebohm was far more sensible than to perpetuate so flimsy an excuse, for
he says:-"it is seldom respected by the gardener, who, in shooting it down,
makes bad worse, and does more damage in one discharge of his gun than a host
of Bullfinches would do in a week. Early in the year the bird may often be
seen on the branches of cherry-, plum-, apple-, and pear-trees, or on the twigs
of the gooseberry- and currant-bushes, and the ground is strewed with the cases
of the buds, marking out its course. Singularly enough the bird confines it
attentions to the flower-buds, those producing leaves being passed by. This
destructive habit of the Bullfinch cannot be defended or excused; but further
research may prove that the bird is, after all, a real benefactor to the tree from
which it levies such a costly tribute."

It does not strike me as singular that the Bullfinch should prefer the short
stout buds to the thin pointed ones, but that is a detail. One thing must be
borne in mind, however, that, in the older trees, if the Bullfinches reduce the
number of fruit buds, they save the gardener the trouble of pruning away super-
fluous fruit; so that, as a matter of fact, the resulting crop may be just as good
in the end, though with less trouble to the grower.

If you want a tree to die, there are few surer ways of killing it than by
