a year passes without two or three being thus obtained, although it sometimes
happens that none are caught for a couple of years." One was seen at Beverley,
Yorks, in 1897. Two were caught at Dover, one near Yarmouth, in 1904, and
one was seen near Crowmarsh, Oxford; a female was caught at Rottingdean,
Sussex, in 1906; and some were reported near Lewes, in 1907. The claim of
this bird to be included in the British list is, therefore, considerably greater than
that of the Scarlet Rose-finch, a bird generally to be obtained in Calcutta, and
frequently included in consignments of cage-birds from India.*

The male Serin, of which the wild Canary is considered to be a sub-species,
has the forehead, a superciliary streak, the rump, and the under-parts, bright
yellow; the under tail-coverts are, however, almost white, and the flanks streaked
with brown; the remainder of the body, as well as the wing and tail-feathers, are
deep olive-brown, mostly with yellowish margins; but the greater wing-coverts
and secondaries are margined with sordid white; beak dark horn-brown, paler at
the base of the lower mandible; feet pale brown; iris dark brown. The female
is duller and more prominently streaked than the male, and in the winter both
sexes are distinctly duller than in the summer. The young show very little
yellow colouring in their plumage.

As bearing upon the question whether or not the Serin is likely, from time
to time, to visit England, the following note by Herr Gätke is of interest:-"Now,
although one can hardly expect to hear of this bird building a nest in Heligoland,
the occurrence here of five young grey individuals during the summer months at
all events seems to admit of the conclusion that these birds may have been bred
in the neighbourhood of the island, perhaps in Sleswick-Holstein. I do not, how-
ever, share the view that breeding attempts of this kind, made in districts far
distant from the regular home, justify one in assuming an extension of the breeding
area." It is conceivable, that birds bred far from their usual summer haunts, might
at the season of migration, join a stream of migrants, which would land them on
our shores.

According to Naumann, the Serin prefers the hilly, cultivated districts to the
plains, chiefly frequenting orchards, plantations, avenues of fruit- and walnut-
trees, vineyards, and even gardens in the middle of villages, or close to houses.
Dixon, who met with it in Algeria, observes (Jottings about Birds, p. 59)-"It
is widely distributed, not only in the mountain districts, but in the more northern
