oases." Also, in his notes quoted by Seebohm (British Birds, Vol. II, p. 85)-
"It is a bird that appears to love the richest districts, and we never met with it
in the pine- and cedar-forests on the Aurès. In the oases the birds inhabited the
luxuriant gardens, the groves of fig-trees, and were seen amongst the apricot-
trees and wealth of shrubs beautifully clothed in the fairest of blooms. But
amongst this semi-tropical verdure, the Serin is difficult to see, and you only
catch a hasty glimpse of it as it appears on the outermost branches for a moment
and then disappears again.

Amongst the date-palms, however, it is very conspicuous. There is little or
no underwood beneath these trees, and the bird perches exclusively upon them.
It was seen sitting on the topmost point of the broad leaves, sixty feet from the
ground, whence it occasionally took a little fluttering flight into the air to catch
an insect from the swarms flitting round the tree-tops. All the Finches in summer-
time are more or less insectivorous, and the little Serin is no exception; indeed
it seems most industrious in its search after insects, not only flitting into the air
but occasionally clinging to the stems of the palm-trees, as if searching for its
food amongst the rugged bark. We repeatedly saw it, too, upon the tops of the
walls that divide the Arab Gardens; but it was always rather shy, and after a
moment or two's rest flew off to its usual refuge, the tops of the date-palms."

The nest is placed either in a fruit-tree, or some other tree of moderate
height, a shrub, or bush; it is loosely but neatly constructed of bents and roots,
compacted together with vegetable down, wool, and spiders' cocoons, or lichen and
grey moss, and is softly lined with similar materials. The eggs number from
four to five, usually five, and chiefly differ from those of the Siskin, or Goldfinch,
in their smaller size, being very pale green, marked with dark reddish-brown
blotches, spots, and sometimes lines, and with underlying sienna-reddish spots;
most specimens are principally marked at the larger end.

The food of the Serin consists chiefly of small seeds, and it is said to give
the preference to those of an oily nature: when rearing its young, however, as
is the case with other Finches in a wild state, various small insects are also eaten,
and doubtless leaves and unripe seeds of weeds.

The call-note somewhat resembles that of a Canary, a plaintive wheet, but the
song is described by Naumann as more nearly like that of a Siskin; and Howard
Saunders says:- "The song resembles the word zi-zi often repeated, and a flock
of birds settled in a tree produces a peculiar buzzing or almost hissing sound."
The bird often sings on the wing after the manner of the Siskin.

The Serin being only subspecifically distinct from the Canary, the fact recorded
by Dr. Carl Russ-that hybrids between the two, proved fertile to the third and
