fourth generation (Vide Gefiederte Welt, Vol. XX, p. 289) is not very surprising:
the only question is whether the Doctor was justified in speaking of them as
"Bastarde." Mr. H. C. Martin, of Old Charlton, bred three crosses between the
Serin and Canary in 1896, and kindly gave a female to me, so that I hoped to be
able to repeat Dr. Russ' experience but was unsuccessful.

Mr. Septimus Perkins in the "Avicultural Magazine," Vol. II, pp. 152-3,
gives his experience of the Serin in captivity; he says:-"The Serin Finch is
not expensive to buy, but is not always to be obtained when wanted. A good
many, however, are generally brought over from Germany in the autumn, and it
is then that the wary aviculturist will purchase a pair or two, with which he may
hope to breed the following year.

Canary and German rape-seed, with the daily addition of a little hemp, suit
the Serin Finch best as a diet. I have always found him most inoffensive towards
his companions in the aviary, a tame, confiding little bird, and, to my mind,
singularly attractive, in spite of his sober colours.

My pair of Serins were bought in the autumn, when they were in very
shabby plumage and not the best of health. In due time they improved greatly
in both respects, but became, unfortunately, a great deal too fat. In May of the
following year the hen began to build, selecting a corner of the aviary, on the
floor of the room, as a nesting place; although the aviary abounded with more
suitable spots, there being nesting boxes of various sorts and abundance of bushes.
The nest was a neatly formed but flimsy edifice, rather hastily put together, and
the three pretty eggs rolled out, one by one, upon the floor a day or two after
the hen began to sit. She stuck to her nest so long as an egg remained in it;
but when the last rolled out, she gave up in despair. No other nest was built."

I do not doubt that if a Hartz cage had been hanging on the wall, the Serin
would have built inside it, and reared her brood: the common Canary in an
aviary prefers this to anything else, and when it is not present, builds in a bush
or a bundle of twigs.

Ornithologists have long differed in opinion as to whether the specimens of
the wild Canary which have from time to time been caught and killed on our
coasts are stragglers to Great Britain or escaped cage-birds; Seebohm insisted
that they were the former, because they showed no evidence of having been in
captivity, although the same might be said of most birds which have been care-
fully attended to in spacious aviaries. Howard Saunders did not hesitate to regard
them as freed captives, observing that "although cages-full are known to be
imported, there are persons who wish to believe that the individuals captured are
not escaped birds, but stragglers from a warm to an inhospitable climate." Here
