to the inner web excepting towards the tips, the primaries narrowly margined with
yellow and, excepting the first three, with broad yellow bases, forming a belt
which extends across the secondaries: central tail-feathers blackish, the remainder
yellow, with black shafts and broad blackish tips; a broad superciliary streak
extending from above the eye to the nape; lores blackish; sides of face greenish
yellow, more green on the ear-coverts; chin black; throat and breast bright
yellow; belly white, the flanks sordid yellowish, streaked with black: beak horn-
brown, paler at the base (becoming paler and pinker in confinement); feet pale
brown (also becoming more fleshy in captivity); iris dark brown. The female
is slightly smaller and has a broader crown than the male, she is altogether duller
and greyer in colouring, with less yellow on the rump, wings, and tail, and with
the underparts much more streaked; she has also no black on the crown or chin.
The young are still duller and greyer than the female.

The Siskin is a bird of the pine woods during the breeding season, though
in winter it wanders about the country in small or sometimes large flocks, which
reach the south of England in September, and are eagerly welcomed by the bird-
catchers who net considerable numbers to sell as cage-birds. The Siskin is an
extremely restless bird, and in all its actions reminds one strongly of the Tit-mice;
its flight is rapid but irregular, like its song; but the latter to my mind is superior
to that of any other British Finch, in spite of its comical finish with six coupled
notes and a harsh chair at the end. The call-note is neither glee, zeisig nor a weak
tit-tit-tit-tit; it is distinctly hootelee, hootelee; the word glee is doubtless a corruption
of the telee (which is all that the ear can compass in the open, though in an aviary
with sloping roof the whole sound is clearly audible); the term zeisig probably
was given to this bird by the Germans more on account of its frivolous nature,
than because it in the slightest degree represented the character of either song
or call-note;* I can only explain the quadrupled tit, on the assumption that a
party of young Robins happened to be in a tree occupied by Siskins.

Mr. R. J. Ussher's notes on this species, which I quoted in my "Handbook
of British Oology," will bear repeating here; he says:-"In April and May,
1857. Siskins were unusually common at Cappagh, in the woods of fir, both on
the low ground and on the hill-side; in fact, the woods were continually ringing
with the song of this bird. You might hear it as it flew over the wood uttering
its peculiar cry, half chirp, half song; at one time flying straight forward, as if
to some destination, then turning and making a circuit, as if it did not know its
own mind, or as if it were loth to descend from its joyous flight, then again
darting off in a new direction, whilst its notes would gradually die away. Its
