and egg; one of these birds lived for three years, and would even permit me to
raise my hand until my nose touched her beak, when she would fly off to a twig,
and return directly I held my hand out to her again; there were two hens and
a cock in this trio, and the male outlived both of his wives; finally he appeared
to have acquired a growth in his throat, which obstructed his breathing; there-
fore as my experience of doctoring birds is, that in nineteen out of twenty cases
it kills them within ten minutes, I thought I would give my Siskin the oppor-
tunity of doctoring himself; so I turned him loose in my garden, where he
remained for about an hour, and then flew straight away. I have had many
other Siskins at various times, sometimes three or four pairs together; they
have always become very tame in a surprisingly short period, and have been
altogether delightful pets; but most of them have died within a few months.
Siskins do not seem to have anything like the constitution of most Goldfinches.
One tame little hen bird, however, lived to a good age; and, when she had lost
three husbands in succession, I caged her and made a regular pet of her. After
six months I wearied of the extra labour (every separate cage adding to the time
occupied in providing for my large family); I, therefore, turned Cissie, as I called
her, into one of my bird-room aviaries; but she had forgotten all about liberty,
flew wildly against the wires in the greatest terror, and presently settled down in
a corner with her face to the wall; having evidently decided thas life was no
longer worth having: I, therefore, picked her up and restored her to her cage,
where she sat looking stupid for half-an-hour before she recovered. I subsequently
gave this bird to a young lady, who christened her Priscilla, and made much of
her to the day of her death about a year later.

Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-FRINGILLINÆ.

THE CITRIL FINCH.

Chrysomitris citrinella, LINN.

AN example was caught by a Yarmouth bird-catcher on January 29th, 1904.
