on the inner web; under parts mostly white; a band across the fore-chest, the
sides of breast, and the flanks bright fawn-coloured; under tail-coverts washed
with huffish; beak pinkish-white, with the terminal half of the upper mandible
and tip of the lower mandible dark horn-brown; feet flesh-brown; iris hazel. In
confinement the beak and feet become paler and more pink in tint.

The female is usually slightly smaller than the male, has a narrower crown,
and a much narrower, straighter, and more regularly tapering beak; the crimson
on the head rarely extends quite so far backward on the forehead and throat; the
cheeks are much more stained with buff-brownish; the lesser coverts are distinctly
browner; the yellow on the wing is rarely so brilliant; upper tail coverts less
white, more mouse-brown, sometimes wholly of that colour; and the under parts
are not quite so pure a white, showing a suspicion of grey when compared with
the male. Young birds, known to bird-catchers as "Grey-pates," show no black
or crimson on the head, have buffish tips to the wing-feathers, and brownish
underparts, with indistinct spotting on the breast. The general characteristics of
the adult birds are acquired after the first moult, but the full beauty of the species
is not brought out until after its second moult.

Birdcatchers always distinguish the sex of the Goldfinch by "the colour of
the shoulder," intense black in the male, rusty black in the female: this, however,
is not so easy to note in young birds as is the different outline of the beak when
seen from above, or the greater arch of the culmen in the male beak when seen
from the side. The width of the yellow belt across the secondaries is even more
easy to note*.

Although the Goldfinch does not haunt the interior of thick woods, it frequently
hangs about the more open spaces on their outskirts, especially where rank weeds
such as thistles, teasels, or plantains abound, upon the seed of which it delights
to feed; but orchards, shrubberies, gardens, and waste patches on badly cultivated
ground are its favourite resorts in the summer time; whilst in the winter it
wanders throughout the country in small or large flocks seeking for food. A
considerable number of Goldfinches, nevertheless, joins the stream of migrants to-
wards the south in the autumn months.

The Goldfinch is certainly much rarer in our islands than it formerly was,
but I cannot think even Mr. Swaysland's statement-that at one time a boy could
catch forty dozen in a morning, or the undoubted fact that birdcatchers would
rejoice if they could do so now, will at all account for the great diminution in
their numbers; the continual reckless destruction of all kinds of birds of prey
would probably counterbalance the numbers obtained by 'catchers, who only capture
