sufficient to supply the bird-market, whereas the Merlin, Sparrow-Hawk, Hen-
Harrier, and most of the Owls, which are more or less destructive to small birds,
pay no attention to close-seasons, but destroy throughout the year. On several
occasions bird-catchers have brought me Sparrow-Hawks which have swooped at
the decoy-Goldfinch and been caught in the nets.

The nest of the Goldfinch is most frequently to be found in orchards, prefer-
ably on the lichen-covered branch of an old apple-tree, though it also occurs at
times in the branches of a pear, horse-chestnut, beech, plane, poplar, yew, cypress,
laurel, or even in a deciduous shrub: in Norfolk I took it from near the top of
a tall hawthorn hedge. Usually the nest, which is small and cup-shaped, is neatly
formed of moss and lichen, interwoven with rootlets and wool; it is lined with
thistle-down, small soft feathers, and horse-hair: my Norfolk nest, however, is
without the lichens, and is chiefly lined with some woolly substance, probably
vegetable, but hardly white enough for thistle-down: the eggs in this nest are
also unusually small.

The late Rev. H. A. Macpherson wrote:-"The most curious nest of the Gold-
finch that I ever saw was built entirely of stems of dry grass. It contained a
full complement of tiny Goldfinches, and was built in a plum-tree."

The eggs number from four to five, usually the latter, and are similar to
those of a Linnet, but usually rather smaller; they are greenish-white, spotted
and streaked, especially at the larger end, with purplish-brown, and with lilacine-
grey shell-spots; they, however, vary greatly from this type, some eggs being
merely speckled and spotted with dull blood-red, whilst others are almost without
markings.

The song of the Goldfinch is much over-rated; it is cheerful, but scrappy in
character; the hen sometimes sings quite as well as the cock, and the song is
the same: some years ago I carefully noted the whole performance, going over it
again and again, with the bird singing close to me, until I had it all down exactly
as follows:-Whee-é-ur, whee-é-ur, whee-é-ur, too-oo-ee, ti-weea, ti-weea, whitweea, chiwhit,
chiwit, chiwit; wheec, wheec, wheec. The last three notes are accompanied by violent
lateral jerks of the tail and a corresponding movement of the body, which some-
times almost upsets the bird's balance. The call-note bears some resemblance to
that of the Canary; but the scolding note, or note of defiance, is a sharp shrill
chit, sometimes continued into a chitteri-tit, tit: as the Goldfinch is tolerably
quarrelsome, this note, which somewhat reminds one of a common autumnal
utterance of the Robin, is frequently heard.

The food consists largely of seeds, buds, and the leaves and flower-heads of
weeds, especially groundsel; but when rearing their young the old birds also feed
