to a great extent upon aphides and small green caterpillars: in confinement soft-
food answers the same purpose.

As a cage and aviary bird the Goldfinch is a general favourite; some avicul-
turists admiring it (most unaccountably) for its energetic, though absurd song,
others for muling purposes, others again for its lovely plumage, and a few on
account of its capacity for learning the usual stupid tricks "violating the laws of
nature," as the editor of the 4th edition of Yarrell most aptly observes.

As a cage-bird the Goldfinch is too restless to be pleasing; he is on the
front wires half his time, and keeps jumping backwards and forwards from perch
to wires almost incessantly, vainly repeating a fragment of his song-"chiwit,
chiwit, chiwit." In an aviary everything is altered: he darts hither and thither
with undulating flight, poises on the top of, or hangs underneath a twig, or the
extremity of a spray of fir, picking out buds or leaves; he squabbles with his
brothers in the bath or the seed-pan, fights furiously for possession of a wife,
and, having secured her, wages incessant warfare with all who dare approach her.
For a nesting-site he chooses a Hartz-cage hanging high upon the back of the
aviary, assists his wife with her first nest, and builds a second in another cage
whilst the young are still under her care; such at any rate was my experience
in 1895: four young were hatched in my first nest, of which three flew and were
brought up, being fed as usual from the crop, upon partly digested seed and the
soft food prepared for my insectivorous birds.

After leaving the nest the mother-bird ceased to trouble about her young,
but began to lay in the second nest almost immediately; the male bird now
having to undertake the double duty of feeding his first family and his wife.
About thirteen days later five young were hatched, and but for the playfulness
of the first family would doubtless have been reared; but the young ruffians
pulled them all out on the sand and left them there. Shortly afterwards the hen
put a fresh lining into her first nest and sat again upon a clutch of six eggs, all
of which she hatched; unhappily all these, excepting the last one, which I put
under a Canary, shared the fate of their predecessors: even the sixth bird was
plucked to death by its foster-mother.

In 1896 my Goldfinches again built, quarrelling for bits of wadding, robbing
one anothers' nests, changing their minds as to the site of a nest, and pulling
the latter to pieces when completed; eventually one hen laid two or three eggs
in a Canary's nest, and the two mothers were so constantly disputing that, although
the young were hatched, none were reared. After the autumn moult one of the
birds produced a golden instead of a crimson colour on the face; but the Rev.
H. A. Macpherson told me that this was of common occurrence in captivity.
