take our small, dark Lesser Redpoll separately." As this appears to me to be
the most reasonable course to pursue, I shall do the same. Dr. Sharpe regards
the Lesser Redpoll (A. rufescens) as a subspecies of A. linaria, but distinguishes

A. hornemanni as a subspecies of A. exilipes, the latter being considered a different
species from the Mealy Redpoll, on account of its greyer rump. When no two
Ornithologists agree as to the limits of various closely-related types, the evidence
in favour of these all belonging to one species would seem to be very strong
indeed. Nevertheless, as regards Great Britain, the two Redpolls usually met with
are sufficiently distinct to be separately treated.

Dr. Sharpe gives the distribution of our Mealy Redpoll as:-"Northern Europe,
across Siberia to North America, wintering in more southern localities."

To Great Britain this bird is a more or less irregular winter visitor; Howard
Saunders states that it "is a regular winter visitor to Shetland, from September
onwards, and the track of its migration appears to be principally along the east
coast in Scotland, and the north of England, for the bird is rarer, and of more
uncertain occurrence on the west side. South of Durham its visits become
irregular; in the eastern counties it has occasionally been obtained in spring, and
exceptionally in summer; and in some years large flocks have been noticed down
to the Channel; but in Cornwall it is as yet unknown. In Ireland an example
was taken in co. Kildare, in February, 1876." (Manual British Birds, p. 182).
An example was shot at Achill Island, co. Mayo, according to F. Coburu, Bull.

B.O.U., XII, p. 15.

The male Mealy Redpoll in breeding-plumage has the upper parts pale brown,
lighter on the back and sides of neck, and streaked with blackish-brown; the
forehead crimson; the rump greyish white, suffused with rose-pink; wings dull
blackish; median and greater coverts with pale brown edges and whitish tips;
the quills and primary coverts with greyer edges and narrower tips; tail dark
brown, with paler edges to the feathers, the inner webs margined with white;
base of forehead and lores black; a superciliary streak and a short streak below
the eye whitish; sides of face pale brown, the cheeks slightly rosy; chin black;
throat and breast rose-pink; remainder of under parts buffish-white, becoming
quite white on the under tail-coverts; flanks streaked with blackish-brown; beak
yellowish horn-colour, darker at the tip and more yellow at the base; feet dark
brown; iris hazel.

The female is slightly smaller than the male, and has a rather broader crown;*
