or by using a pea-whistle, and the call-note somewhat resembles that of a Canary,
a kind of tewey.

The favourite food consists of seed of the birch, but many other seeds are
eaten, and in confinement the same food is eaten by the Redpolls as by the Canary;
the most wholesome seeds being Canary, German rape, and oats. Curiously enough,
aviculturists do not appear to be aware of the fact that most seed-eating birds
are fond of the last-mentioned wholesome and cheap seed, and they quite laugh
at the mere idea of offering oats to small birds, imagining that, because the seed
is large, it is only suitable for Cardinals or other large birds: this is a curious
mistake. In addition to the above, grass-seed, thistle, and teasel, are good for a
change, especially during the breeding and moulting seasons.

Not being particularly fond of Redpolls in an aviary, I have never purchased
the Mealy race; but Henry Stevenson in his "Birds of Norfolk" (p. 229) says:-
"Both the Mealy and Lesser Redpolls, from their tameness and engaging actions,
are most desirable additions to the cage or aviary, but from their happy contented
natures are liable to grow too fat, and like Ortolans, when over-fed, drop off the
perch in a fit of apoplexy. Mr. Charles Barnard, of this city, before mentioned
as so successful in breeding the Bramblings in confinement, had a brood of young
Mealy Redpolls, hatched off in his aviary at Stoke, in July, 1860, a very uncommon
circumstance with this species."

Of late years the judges at some of our large shows have been very unwilling
to award prizes, in the British classes, to birds which do not breed with us;
asserting, in support of their action, that most of these birds have not even been
captured upon British soil; but have been imported as cage-birds direct from
Germany. Singularly enough, they invariably waive this objection in the case of
the Mealy Redpoll, which (though it may be in wild breeding-plumage, and by
no means tame) usually carries off the prizes over the heads of the more soberly
clad though home-bred Lesser Redpoll. Such inconsistency can only be explained
on the supposition that the life-history of the Mealy Redpoll has not been so inti-
mately studied as it ought to be by those who have to deal with it upon the
show-bench.

As Gätke observes:-"The breeding stations of the Mealy Redpoll lie within
the Arctic Circle, both in the Old and New World." Speaking of the migration
of this species, the same author says that on the 4th and 5th November, 1847,
"countless flocks" and "innumerable multitudes" visited Heligoland:-"the whole
island was literally covered with these birds, so that one might have thrown a
stone in any direction one chose, and it was sure to hit birds as long as it con-
tinued rolling along the ground." It is during such unusual manifestations of
