Siskin as above described. They are exceedingly tame, and may be very closely
watched as they cluster like bees on some hanging sprays, searching for buds,
and keeping up an incessant twittering music, pleasant enough, but not by any
means so melodious as that of the Siskin."

Speaking of the nesting of the Lesser Redpoll in various parts of Norfolk,
Henry Stevenson says:-"In these localities, the nests have been mostly found
in the apple and cherry trees, but Mr. Alfred Newton in a communication to Mr.
Hewitson (Eggs British Birds, 3rd Ed.) remarks that near Thetford, where it also
breeds yearly, the nests are placed 'close to the trunk of the tree in plantations
of young larch and firs of no great height,' though he once found one at least
sixty feet from the ground, and placed near the outer end of a branch."

In his "Notes on the Birds of Donegal," (Zoologist, 1891, p. 336) H. C. Hart
says of Lesser Redpolls:-"I have noted them in May settling themselves about
Glenalla in small flocks, and scattering to breed. About Rathmullan and Carra-
blagh they are also frequent in summer. In winter these birds come to roost,
with several other species, every night in the plantations round my house at
Carrablagh, where there is the best shelter for several miles. 'Very common
about Killybegs in the breeding season. Have known four nests in the hedge-
rows along the first mile of the Donegal road from here, in the same season.'-
(A.B.)."

Speaking of the species as observed by him in Wales, E. A. Swainson, of
Brecon, says:-"I have noticed it every summer here for some years, but this
season (1891) it has been unusually common, and I have often heard its musical
little trill and triple flight-note about the alder swamps and adjacent hedges. In
June last I found two nests of this bird, placed in honeysuckle growing in tall
hedges, each containing fresh eggs. Both nests had the usual lining of white
down, but one was peculiar in having a quantity of honeysuckle bark-strips inter-
woven amongst the grass round the outside of the nest. This beautiful little nest
contained four eggs, of a bright blue-green, blotched, two of them very boldly,
with reddish-brown."

As a cage-bird the Lesser Redpoll is usually a great favourite, chiefly on
account of its tameness and a certain amount of reasoning capacity which it
possesses, whereby it has discovered, under the pressure of hunger and thirst, that
it can pull up with its beak and hold with its claw little pails or waggons con-
taining its food or water: it is by no means the only bird which has been taught
this senseless trick, but many thoughtless bird-lovers seem to consider that all
captives (even birds) ought to be compelled to work for their living. I have seen
the process of teaching this bird in all its stages, and consider it anything but kind.
