Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-FRINGILLINÆ.

THE TWITE.

Acanthis flavirostris, LINN.

ON the Continent the Twite, according to Dr. Sharpe, is generally distributed
throughout Europe, west of Russia, and south of the Baltic, breeding in
Scandinavia. Howard Saunders observes that it "is found in summer
among the islands and along the coast of Norway up to about 70° N. lat., but
in Sweden it is scarce even in the sub-alpine districts, and it is somewhat doubtful
if it nests in Northern Russia. On migration it visits Denmark and Northern
Germany-sometimes passing in large numbers over Heligoland-Holland, Belgium,
and France; but it seldom goes far south, and its occurrences in Spain, Italy,
and Southern Russia, are few and far between."

In England during the breeding-season the Twite occurs locally in suitable
localities from the midlands northwards; in Wales, according to J. H. Salter, it
is almost unknown as a breeding species. A nest was taken at Westward Ho!
in 1904, and a supposed nest of this species in Surrey in 1894; in Scotland
and Ireland it is pretty generally distributed, being especially abundant in the
west of Scotland, the Hebrides, Orkneys, and Shetlands.

The adult male in breeding plumage has the feathers of the crown, nape, and
back ruddy olive-brown, with blackish centres and paler edges; the rump rose-
red; wings dark brown; the median and greater coverts with paler edges, whitish
towards the tips; the quills with pale edges; the inner primaries margined, and
the secondaries tipped with white; tail-feathers blackish-brown, the three outer
pairs with whitish edges. A superciliary streak, the lores, ear-coverts, and cheeks
rufous-brown, the ear-coverts with dusky streaks; under parts mostly pale tawny-
brown, clearest on the throat; centre of breast and abdomen sordid white, as are
the under tail-coverts; sides of breast and flanks streaked with blackish; beak
pale ochre-yellow; feet dark brown; iris hazel. The female has no rose-red on
the rump; and in width of crown and beak differs as does the Linnet. After the
autumn moult this species shows less of the dark centres to the feathers, and
the beak becomes paler. Young birds nearly resemble the female, but have some-
what more dusky beaks; the males, however, show a tinge of rose-reddish on the
rump.
