Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-FRINGILLINÆ.

THE LINNET.

Acanthis cannabina, LINN.

BREEDS throughout Europe south of lat. 64° in Scaudinavia, and of lat. 59°
in East Russia; it is also resident in North-west Africa, the Canaries, and
Madeira; eastward it extends to Turkestan. In Persia and North India
a representative race replaces it, in which the general plumage is more ashy, and
the breast of the male more scarlet in colouring.

Excepting in the mountainous parts of Scotland, where it appears to be replaced
by the Twite, the Linnet is pretty generally distributed throughout Great Britain;
it has, however, been rarely seen in the Shetland Isles.

The male Linnet in breeding plumage has a glossy crimson patch from the
base of the upper mandible to the centre of the crown; remainder of head, nape,
and sides of neck brown, with an ashy suffusion and darker mottling; back and
wing-coverts ruddy golden-brown, broadly centred with dark brown; upper tail-
coverts dark brown, with broad buffish-white borders; tail-feathers black, the outer
web narrowly, and the inner web broadly bordered with white; flight feathers
blackish, the primaries with a conspicuous white stripe on the outer webs, and
with a broad whitish-ash border along a great part of the inner webs; secondaries
bordered, especially along the outer webs, with ruddy golden-brown; lores, a streak
above and another below the eye, buffish; ear-coverts and sides of face greyish;
chin and throat buffish-white, with small brown streaks; throat and breast crimson,
somewhat suffused with chestnut in youngish birds; belly buffish-white; flanks
tawny brown, with darker centres to the feathers, and sometimes slightly tinted
with rose-reddish; beak greyish horn-brown, paler at the base of the lower man-
dible; feet brown; iris hazel. In captivity all crimson disappears from the plumage,
and both beak and feet become paler and flesh-tinted.

The female differs in the absence of all crimson colouring; the entire upper
surface browner, with blackish centres to the feathers, the much more prominent
streaking of the under surface, the decidedly broader crown and base of beak, and
the considerably narrower white outer margins to the primaries and tail feathers.
It also differs remarkably in the form of the wings the distinctions being precisely
