whistling through soap-suds, a clear note escaping at the end of the phrase
through bubble and sputter-"chick, chick, achock; chick, chicka-chick; chick, chick,
achoo"; moreover, half a dozen Linnets quarrelling sound nearly as well as one
Linnet singing. For clearness and vigour not a note in the song of Acanthis
cannabina will compare with the joyous, though somewhat monotonous, song of
the Chaffinch: of course I am aware that this is rank heresy; but heresy is often
truth. Howard Saunders observes that "it is the capacity for learning the notes
of other birds which makes the Linnet so great a favourite for the cage": perhaps
he is right; but, although I was never without the species until after 1900, since I first
began to keep birds, often having as many as six or eight cock Linnets at the
same time, I never observed any capacity for mimicry in any of my specimens:
even the three males last in my possession, which had been flying together in
the same aviary for six or seven years, sang nothing beyond their natural
wild song. That nestling Linnets will learn a song of another bird if kept
separate from examples of their own species, as recorded by Sterland (Vide Charles
Witchell's "Evolution of Bird Song," p. 170)* is not remarkable; but it does not
account for the caging of many thousands of adult Linnets yearly.

Linnets are known to be largely migratory, and Seebohm observes:-"Although
the Linnet is a resident in this country it is probable that many, if not most of
the birds of the year join the flocks of this species that pass our islands every
autumn, and migrate further south with them."

The food of the Linnet consists principally of seeds of dock, plantain, dandelion,
groundsel, thistle, etc., and it is fond of hemp, oats, and turnip seed. Probably
when feeding its young it also eats aphides and small caterpillars. In confine-
ment German rape, canary, and oats are the best seeds on which to feed it.
Why the last-mentioned very wholesome and cheap seed is so seldom used by
aviculturists I cannot understand, unless they imagine that the smaller hard-billed
birds are unable to crack it: this, of course, is a very mistaken notion, for most
seed-eating birds, including Canaries, are very fond of oats.

When hand-reared, Linnets become extremely tame; but, if they are to be
kept so, they must be caged separately; for association in an aviary with other
birds, renders them as wild as caught specimens in a few days; a fact which I
proved first in 1886, and have since been able to confirm. It is also a mistake to
trust the rearing of caged nestlings to the parent birds; I tried this in 1887,
hanging up the cage in a tree near the nest from which I had removed the
young. The old birds are willing enough to feed their young in a cage, but the
