simply gigantic specimen in a large pail hanging on the branch of a tree, the
depth of this nest was at least 16-inches, and the width close upon a foot: it
was too bulky to carry away and was hardly suitable for a collection, so I left it
where it was. But the most marvellous Sparrow's nest I ever saw is one in my
collection obtained from the forking branches of a large hawthorn, at Kemsley,
near Sheppy; it is roughly circular, saucer-shaped, and altogether has more the
character of a Duck's than a Sparrow's nest; the four eggs in it also all differ,
the darkest egg being similar in character to the most richly coloured eggs of
the Tree-Sparrow, whilst the lightest is white with smoky-grey spots and dots
crowded chiefly at the larger end, so that it has quite a Shrike-like character.
(figs. 142 and 143 are from this nest.)

The number of eggs ranges from four to seven, but rarely exceeds six: the
colouring both of ground-tint and marking varies more than in most birds, and
as I have selected all the best-marked modifications for illustration on our plate,
it would be only a waste of space to describe them; but it may perhaps be as
well to call attention to the fact that the whitest and least boldly marked varieties
are found in places to which light has had little access.

In 1877 I had clear proof of the unthinking obstinacy of the Sparrow, a pair
having built in the roller-box of a sun-blind during dull weather, the pulling down
of the blind with the first hot day destroyed the nest; no sooner, however, was
the blind pulled up than the Sparrows set to work and replaced it. This went
on so continually and repeatedly that I wrote to the late Charles Darwin, asking
him whether he did not think it would be interesting to publish the fact, as
evidence of the feeble reasoning powers of this species: his reply dated May 9th,
1877, I still have, with other letters from him.-"My dear Sir, I have been
always inclined to think that Sparrows were acute and crafty birds, but you
certainly show that they are fools, and if they go on behaving in so idiotic a
manner, you will do quite right to expose their conduct in some public journal!
-Yours sincerely, Ch. Darwin." As this unreflecting perseverance under difficulties
continued altogether for nearly a month, I sent an account to the "Zoologist,"
1877, pp. 299-300.

The House-Sparrow can hardly be said to have a song, its best performance
being little more than a chirrup interspersed with sharp chirps, but often early
in the morning you will hear several apparently engaged in conversation
chow, chow, chivi, chivi, chow, chivi, to which the reply is whit! perhaps followed
by two or three rapid harsh chirps: chivi is the cry of the young for food,
and the adult bird when caught in a trap expresses his rage by indignant
chows. I never heard the Sparrow utter any sound like tell, but think the
