Afghanistan, and the Himalayas, and is found in suitable localities throughout
the rest of Eastern Asia, including Japan, Formosa, Hainan, and Java."

The distribution of this species in Great Britain is imperfectly known, owing
to its general resemblance to the House-Sparrow and its comparative rarity, but
it is believed to be most abundant in the eastern and midland counties of England,
and the eastern counties of Scotland: in Ireland it was not discovered until 1852,
but is steadily extending its range and increasing in numbers. A colony is said
to have existed at Belmullet since 1902; another was discovered near Killala in
1907; a pair nested in Co. Deny in 1906; in Donegal four nests with eggs were
found in 1907, and a single bird was seen in Sligo the same year.

It is believed that in the autumn the numbers of our resident Tree-Sparrows
are largely added to, by flocks of immigrants from the north; many hundreds
arriving on our east coast, in company with Greenfinches, during October and
November.

The Tree-Sparrow chiefly differs from the House-Sparrow in its slightly inferior
size, chestnut crown and nape, a white-bordered triangular black patch on the ear-
coverts, a second white bar across the wing; and in the fact that the female
scarcely differs from the male. Young birds have the black markings replaced
by brown, and the wing bauds suffused with buff.

During the summer months this species in our islands differs somewhat in its
habits from those on the Continent, seeming to avoid towns and the larger villages,
and (according to Seebohm) chiefly haunting "the fields and wilder districts away
from houses"; but curiously enough the whole of the nests which I have taken,
both in Kent and Norfolk, were found in holes in trees within a stone's throw of
at least one house, and sometimes at a distance of only a few yards. "On the
Continent, however," (says Seebohm) "the bird has so far overcome its shyness,
and adapted itself to circumstances as to frequent the towns, and is quite as pert
and impudent as its congener, which it otherwise resembles in its habits."

As a site for its nest the Tree-Sparrow seems to prefer holes in pollard
willows when obtainable, and, more often than not, the selected hole is at the top
of the stump, though I have also taken it out of a hollow and decayed lateral
branch, about five feet from the ground: in Norfolk all the nests I found were
in willows; but in Kent I took one nest from a hole in the front of an old oak-
tree facing the road, whilst Lord Lilford says that in Northamptonshire they "are
to be found nesting generally in small colonies of three or four pairs in old
hollow trees, especially (in our neighbourhood) decayed ash, willows, and walnuts."
Yarrell speaks of the species as building "in the thatch of a barn, in company
with the House-Sparrow, not, however, entering the thatch from the inside of the
