to the sky, were deepest in colouring; the nest containing an almost white egg
was from the ruined lime-kiln, and was almost as much in the dark as if it had
been taken from a Sand-Martin's burrow. Lord Lilford's eggs being taken from
holes in full-sized trees, and not from the tops of pollards, were probably but little
exposed to light.

The Tree-Sparrow is a more active sprightly bird than its commoner relative;
and, although it can hardly be said to have a song,* its chirruping is somewhat
more melodious, its chirp is sharper, and the indignant utterance of a recently
captured bird is shriller.

Although the Tree-Sparrow does not breed so continuously as the House-
Sparrow, which in mild seasons appears to rear family after family throughout the
greater part of the year, there is no doubt that it frequently produces three broods
in a season. When feeding its young it eats caterpillars, spiders, and various
kinds of insects, as well as leaves and unripe seeds of weeds; but at other times
it appears to confine its attentions principally to different kinds of seeds.

On several occasions bird-catchers have offered me Tree-Sparrows at from
twopence to threepence apiece; but the birds looked so vindictive and chirped so
savagely that, considering their powerful beaks, I decided not to risk associating
them with the other members of my feathered family. Although opinions differ
greatly respecting the character of this species, I am satisfied that I adopted the
safest course. Stevenson (Birds of Norfolk, Vol. I, p. 209) says:-"In confinement
the Tree-Sparrows are certainly the shyest and most untameable of any birds I
have ever introduced into my aviary, and even time seems to work but little change
in their wild nature, as on the approach of any person, whether a stranger or not,
they dash about the cage in a reckless manner, and when exhausted and panting
with fright, will creep into any corner or dark spot to escape notice."

Lord Lilford observes:-"In captivity the Tree-Sparrow thrives well upon
canary- and millet-seed, and becomes very tame."†

Swaysland, who has had considerable experience in keeping many of our
British Birds, remarks:-"When caught do not place immediately in an aviary, as
they would then invariably sulk and behave wildly, frightening the other birds,
but rather keep in a small cage until tame."

Howard Saunders (Manual, p. 174) says:-"In captivity this species has bred
