gling desperately. No sooner, however, is the hen Chaffinch once subdued than
she is treated with gentleness and affection; pairing frequently takes place on the
earth, but sometimes on a branch.

In the autumn there is a considerable immigration of Chaffinches, chiefly on
the eastern and south-eastern coasts of England, and it would seem that there is
a return migration early in the year, as this species passes over Heligoland both
in September and March.

Early in February the Chaffinch begins to practise his song; at first this
bears no resemblance to the full powerful melody which is eventually developed;
but merely sounds like tsip, tsip, tsip, turrrrrl, torrrrrl, a sort of liquid bubbling;
a little later there is an effort to get in the terminal notes, then by twos and
threes the other notes come out weakly; until, by March, the full song is remembered
and rings out from the trees and hedgerows; when perfect it is a full rattling
scale, ending variously in different individuals, although the same bird at times
varies his terminal phrase: sometimes it is chucha churr, sometimes tissi-ear, and
frequently wheatear; the bird-catchers call the birds which use the first phrase
"chuckwados," and those that use the two last "kiss-me dears." In Kent, and I
believe in some other counties, the Chaffinch is said to sing-"If we wait another
month, we shall have the Wheatear."

The call-note of the Chaffinch is, I believe, that described by my late friend
Mr. Charles Witchell as "a loud short whistle very rapidly slurred upwards in
the interval of about a fifth or sixth. It may be pronounced twit."* The call
of the young for food is chizzit, chizzit, chizzit; Mr. Witchell (who, however,
renders it chizzick), says that he has heard the old birds utter the same note. The
war-cry undoubtedly is a shrill chick, chick, with a slight metallic n sound before
the k: this cry has been variously written twink, spink, pink, bink, and fink; it
is usually uttered twice only by our Chaffinch, but the Madeiran Chaffinch repeats
it rapidly four times; so that it almost leads up to his rather monotonous and
poor song, the terminal phrase of which was never uttered by my male example.
As the song of the Chaffinch is itself sung in rivalry and as a challenge, there
is every reason for believing that it has been gradually evolved from the single
note of defiance and not from the call-note.

The nest of this species varies exceedingly; not, as has been stated, with the
deliberate design of the bird to conceal it; for, if such were the case, this pretty
little structure would never be so glaringly conspicuous as it sometimes is; but
simply from the fact that, like most birds, the Chaffinch uses those materials
which are most handy, provided that they are capable of being woven into a soft
