warm mass. The nest is most frequently placed in hawthorn hedges, where
mimicry of its environment would be absolutely useless; preference is given to
hedges enclosing orchards, but roadside hedge-rows are often utilized, as also those
along the margins of woods; the forks of young fruit-trees and the boughs of
old apple-trees are sometimes selected as nesting-sites, and Seebohm speaks of the
"lichen- and moss-covered branches of the birch- and ash-trees, far up in the
towering branches of the oak, the alder, and the poplar, and on the lowly branches
of the holly, more rarely of the yew, and frequently in the gorse shrubs." I
have found it in the yew, but never in gorse.

The nest takes from five days to a fortnight to construct, all depending upon
whether the bird is ready to lay. In form it is a small neat cup, slightly con-
tracted at the top, and tolerably deep; but curiously enough Seebohm quotes a
note by a Mr. C. Doncaster on a very aberrant nest seen by him on a thorn tree
by the river Derwent, which appears to have been like that made by an English
Chaffinch sent to New Zealand, and which has been figured by Dixon as evidence
that birds do not inherit the design upon which they construct their nests. In the
year 1896 I again turned a Canary loose in an aviary, and had the pleasure of
seeing her prove the fallacy of Dixon's belief, by building a cup-shaped nest in a
bunch of fir-twigs, her only pattern being set by a Canary on the opposite side
of the aviary sitting in the usual square box.

The materials of the nest, as already stated, vary a good deal; the normal type
being firmly felted together and formed of moss, a few lichens and spiders' cocoons,
and lined with rootlets and hair, intermingled, or covered, with a layer of thistle-
down; but one of my nests has a rather rough aspect, being constructed of roots
and fibre, mingled with fine worsted, and with hardly any moss or lichen in the
outer walls, but with the usual lining; others have feathers mixed with the usual
materials in the lining. The eggs, four to six in number, are, as a rule, either
greenish, or rosy flesh-coloured, the markings consisting of diffused sienna or ruddy
brownish patches and streaks, some of which enclose blots, commas, dots, streaks,
or hair-lines of blackish-brown; in some eggs the reddish markings are chiefly
massed over the larger end: in others the darker markings form a subterminal
zone, whilst in rare instances they are wholly absent, the eggs being bluish, slightly
clouded with reddish: the rarest type, of which I have only taken two clutches, is
exactly like some eggs of the Bullfinch, clear blue, with grey shell-spots, purplish
patches, and almost black surface spots. The Chaffinch certainly frequently rears
three broods in a year; nidification lasting from April sometimes to August.

The natural food of the Chaffinch in summer, as already stated, consists largely
of insects, their larvæ, spiders, and the soft foliage and unripe seeds of weeds; but at
