other times it lives chiefly upon various kinds of seeds of weeds, and of grain. In
confinement it may be kept for years in health without insect food, but nevertheless
a few caterpillars, mealworms, cockroaches, or spiders certainly are good for it.

I think it was about the year 1887 that I took and hand-reared a nest of four
young Chaffinches, which eventually proved to be two pairs: the nestlings are not
easy to feed, as they always back away from the food, wagging their heads violently
from side to side, so that it requires patience and dexterity to pop it into their
wide-gaping mouths. My two male birds came into magnificent colour, and sang
extremely well, probably learning their song from a Chaffinch which still lived in
one of my aviaries up to 1897, though it must now be quite fifteen years of age.
This old fellow was a fine Essex bird when I bought him, and a very good singer;
and, although he had been unable to fly for two or three years, and his white
eye-lashes showed his advanced age, he still sang strongly in the spring: but his
chief interest to me lay in the fact that he once took a Canary to wife.

In the spring of 1886 the veteran above-mentioned was flying about with
other Finches in a small aviary, and one of my hen Norwich Canaries took a
violent fancy to him, following him about everywhere: at first he did not seem
to reciprocate this feeling, but eventually he began to feed her from the crop.
When I noticed this, I placed the two apart in a large flight-cage where they soon
paired. The Canary then built and commenced to lay, but I only found the shell
of the first egg (which was so exactly marked like that of a Chaffinch that it
would have deceived anyone).

Although I found the Finch feeding his wife as she sat in her nest, I felt
certain that he must have destroyed her first egg; therefore, I promptly removed
him to another cage. After this the Canary laid three other eggs, all more or
less marked like the first, and sat steadily upon them for three weeks; when,
knowing that there was no chance of their hatching, I took them away and found
that they were all clear.*

The idea prevalent in the minds of many naturalists, that the Chaffinch differs
from other Fringillidæ in not feeding its hen and young from the crop, is probably
based upon the fact that it begins to give its nestlings solid food before they leave
the nest. This is certainly the case with some, if not all, members of the Sub-
family Emberizinæ.
