clutches which I found or saw. One reason may perhaps have been that the nest
of this bird was the easiest of all nests to find. The males were so extremely
handsome and so very conspicuous that whilst it may perhaps be scarcely correct
to say that no other species of bird was so common, certainly no other appeared
to be so."

Further on, he says:-"the plain joins a steep rocky slope, where the olives
are smaller and more scattered, and where clematis and white and pink roses half
conceal the stony ground, and dwarf oleanders, pomegranates, figs, almonds, and
other shrubs compose a half-wild landscape, the only sign of cultivation being a
vine-terrace here and there. This seems to be the paradise of the Black-headed
Bunting; and it is not an uncommon thing to see three or four males perched
conspicuously on the top of as many isolated trees, singing in rivalry. When
disturbed it seldom flies far, but drops down from its perch, and after a short
flight, low and undulating, rises up again to the nearest tree-top, on which it is
so anxious to perch that its legs may be seen extended for the purpose long before
the desired haven is reached."

The nest is usually placed amongst creepers, such as brambles or clematis;
but often in rose-bushes; sometimes in rows of peas or beans, and occasionally
on the ground. It is large and loosely constructed of the seed-bearing heads of
small flowering plants; and is lined with dry grass, bents, rootlets, and hair.
The eggs number from four to six, usually four; they are pale greenish-blue,
with brown surface spots and grey shell spots; usually they are most densely
massed at the larger end, but sometimes they are scattered over the entire
surface; they also vary in size, though as a rule both large and small spots occur
on the same egg.

Jerdon says of this Bunting (Birds of India, Vol. II, p. 378):-"It makes its
appearance in the Deccan usually about the end of November: is found in
immense flocks, and is very destructive to the crops of jowaree, and other grains. It
leaves early in March, and certainly does not breed in any part of India." Tristram
states that it breeds in Corfu, frequenting brushwood on the hill sides, and has
an agreeable song." According to Seebohm this song consists of only "two or
three slight variations of not a very loud nor yet very melodious note, rapidly
repeated, with a slight pause in the middle. The ordinary call-note is a loud chit,
chit, and the call-note of one sex to the other a more plaintive and longer con-
tinued tsee-a." Howard Saunders says:-"The call-note of the male is a vibrating
monotonous chiririri."

As a captive, little pleasure can be derived from keeping the Black-headed
Bunting in a cage; doubtless its feeding is simple enough, millet and canary
