The Corn-Bunting, in spite of its clumsy aspect, is very strong on the wing,
and may be recognized from the fact that its legs hang down as it pursues its
undulating flight; it also frequently sings as it goes. It is very fond of dusting
itself in the road after the manner of a Sparrow or Skylark.

The nest is either placed in a depression in the ground, in a tuft of grass,
ragged-robin, or other low-growing herbage; in brambles, or freshly-sprouting
hawthorn on ground recently cleared; also in fields of growing corn, peas, or
clover: it is large, deep, cup-shaped, and roughly constructed of mingled coarse
and fine grass, occasionally (though rarely) with a fragment or two of moss, and
sometimes a few roots; the bulk of the nest really consisting of a thick inner
lining of fine grass and black horsehair. The eggs number from four to six, five
being usual; they frequently resemble abnormally large eggs of the Yellow
Bunting; as a rule they are pale pinky-lilac, but sometimes creamy-white; the
markings are blackish-purple or deep pitchy-brown, with greyish-lavender shell-
markings; they vary considerably in character, either consisting of finely and
densely scribbled lines, of boldly scrawled streaks, of combined streaks and blots,
of broad irregular smears and paler blurred spots, or of partly confluent blots,
sometimes forming a zone near the larger extremity of the egg.

The time of nidification is from about the last week of May to the first week
of July, one brood only being reared in a season; the hen is a close sitter, and
rarely leaves her nest until one has almost put foot or hand upon her; so that
apart from the size of the eggs, there is seldom any difficulty in identifying them.

During the breeding-season the food of this bird consists very largely of
insects and their larvæ; but it has been said to eat both peas and beans, and it
is certain that it devours quantities of unripe corn: in autumn and winter the
Corn-Bunting lives almost exclusively upon grain and various kinds of seeds, in
search of which it frequents rick-yards, stubble-fields, and pastures.

Although this species is tolerably common in Kent, I do not think I took its
nest more than half a dozen times during the seventeen successive years in which
I was an enthusiastic birds'-nester; but as I had a strong objection to trampling
down crops on the bare chance of discovering a nest, it is probable that I may
frequently have passed within a few yards of a nest of the Corn-Bunting without
being aware of the fact.

This is not a suitable bird for the Aviculturist, being unpleasing in appearance
and voice, as well as voracious; it is, therefore, rarely caged. It is, however,
possible that we underrate the vocal powers of this bird, for in the "Zoologist" for
1887, P. 300, the late Rev. H. A. Macpherson proves that it has some capacity for
mimicking the notes of other species; he says:-"When birds'-nesting on the Upper
