may also be often seen, though at times when it sits upon a flowering furze-bush
it is overlooked until its ringing song directs one's attention to the performer.

The song of the Yellow Bunting is not especially meritorious, though bright
and cheering; it consists of a rapid descending scale made up of a repetition of
a sharp note which may be rendered chip or chink, and terminating with a double
note chee-chee: it rather suggests the shaking up of shillings between the hands,
and has been likened to the words "Give me a little bit of bread and no cheese,"
though "green cheese" would have been a better interpretation: occasionally the
double note is omitted; but more especially when the bird is beginning to sing
in the early spring. Being a late breeder this species continues his song well
into the autumn, and often recommences in February. The male call-note is
described as chich, chich, churr.

The nidification of this bird commences about the middle of April, and not
unfrequently continues up to the end of August: I have myself taken a nest as
late as the 12th August with three fresh eggs (Vide "Zoologist" for December,
1883) and eggs have been obtained in September.

The nest is usually placed low down, though occasionally at a distance of from
four to five feet above the ground in a hedge, and (according to Howard Saunders)
exceptionally at a height of seven feet. I have often found it in low bushes, but
only once in furze; in low scrub on partially cleared waste ground; in holes in
grassy banks by the road-side; or under a low dividing hedge between fields; also
at a considerable height (from thirty to forty feet) in a niche in the side of a
gravel or chalk-pit surrounded by tufts of plantain and grass. The structure is a
loose one, occasionally so much so that, when taken, the outer walls have to be
supported to prevent their falling apart; these consist of coarse straws, dead
grasses, and sometimes a few twigs interlaced; and, in one nest which I took
from a hedge, there was an edging of dead chestnut leaves; the lining consists of
fine withered grass-bents, and a few rootlets and horsehairs.

The eggs of the Yellow Hammer are extremely variable, both in ground-tint
and marking, although most of them exhibit the purplish-black characters which
have earned for this bird the title of "Scribbling Lark." In tint they vary from
greenish-white, through greyish-lavender, to pale rosy-brownish; whilst one egg,
taken by my brother Frank, in Cornwall, was bright sienna-red, with a single
irregular blackish line across one side, and somewhat resembles a rare form of
the egg of the Tree-Pipit (Plate III, fig. 100). On two occasions I have taken
the greenish-white egg almost or entirely without markings, the first time I only
secured the first egg (as I had to return to town the following day) on the second
occasion I obtained a clutch of three; four elliptical eggs in one clutch were dull
