roots, and quantities of dead leaves. It is lined with one or two scraps of moss,
a few pieces of fine grass, and a great quantity of short hair."

The eggs of the Cirl Bunting vary much less than those of the Yellow
Bunting; but Seebohm states that some of them have a greenish-white ground-
tint.

Lord Lilford says:-"The few nests I have met with were all placed on steep
banks by the side of a road or footway, amongst low bushes and herbage, and
were built of moss and grass-stalks, with a lining of cow's hair."

Herr Gätke (Birds of Heligoland, p. 371), states that he has only twice
obtained this Bunting on the island; he gives Zaunammer as the German trivial
name of the species; but Von Homeyer (in the Gefiederte Welt, 1891, p. 444)
applies this name to Emberiza cia, using the term Zippammer (used for the Meadow
Bunting alone by Gätke), in a generic sense. If two such distinct species as
Emberiza cirlus and E. cia are each called "The Hedge Bunting" by well-known
writers, the confusion respecting them is likely to be as fruitful of mischief as the
incorrect application of the trivial name of Black-headed Bunting to Emberiza
schæniclus has been in England.

The food of this species is similar to that of its congeners; consisting largely
of grasshoppers, beetles, moths, caterpillars, and spiders, during the breeding-
season; but in autumn and winter, of various seeds and grain. In confinement
it lives well on the usual mixed seeds, including oats, with the addition of an
occasional mealworm, cockroach, or spider.

Like most of the British Buntings, the Cirl Bunting (if kept in an aviary)
is, as Lord Lilford observes, "dull, silent, and greedy." Rarely one may hear
it sing, once or twice perhaps in the course of a month: it is not, however, an
aggressive bird; and, when it does show itself, makes a pretty addition to a
collection of Finches. My late friend, Mr. Phillip Crowley, purchased a pair at the
Crystal Palace Show some years ago, and turned them out into his mixed garden
aviary, where, I believe, they lived for several years; but one which I had (I think
in 1893 or 1894), only survived for about a twelvemonth, dying suddenly without
apparent cause.
