Family-FRINGILLIDÆ.

Subfamily-EMBERIZINÆ.

THE ORTOLAN BUNTING.

Emberiza hortulana, LINN.

IN Scandinavia the northern limit of its breeding-range extends to the Arctic
circle"; "in the Ural Mountains it is not found further north than lat.
57°." "In Siberia, the eastward limit of its range appears to be the valley
of the Irtish, as far as its source in the Altai Mountains; thence it extends
westwards through Turkestan and Persia to Palestine and Asia Minor. In all
these countries it is a summer migrant, and in the two latter it is principally
known as passing through on migration, though a few retire to the mountains to
breed. This appears to be the case also in Greece and Italy; but to the rest of
Europe, south of the northern limits above mentioned, it is a regular summer
visitor. A few remain to breed in North-west Africa, but the majority passes
southwards in autumn, and doubtless winters somewhere in West Africa. It also
passes through Egypt on migration, and winters in Abyssinia; a few also winter
in North-west India." (Seebohm, Hist. Brit. Birds, Vol. II, pp. 153-4).

Although there can be little doubt that several of the Ortolans shot, captured,
or seen in Great Britain, have escaped from the poulterer's shops, having been
imported from the Continent to supply the tables of the wealthy; the fact that it
is a common species at no greater distance than the north of France, renders its
occasional visits to our coasts extremely probable. The first recorded instance of
its occurrence was that of an example caught in Marylebone Fields, and figured
by Brown in 1776, since which time a good many specimens have been either
obtained or seen in various parts of England; many others in Scotland, and
especially from Fair Isle, where a number arrived in May 1906, also one at least
from Ireland.

The adult male Ortolan Bunting has the head, nape, and upper breast greenish-
grey; eyelid whitish; lores, a moustachial streak, the chin and fore-throat sulphur-
yellow; back, wing-coverts, and secondaries pale reddish-brown, with blackish
central streaks to the feathers; lower back and rump with barely defined streaks;
the remaining feathers of the wings and the tail brown, the three outer tail
feathers, with large terminal patches of white on the inner webs; lower breast,
