belly, and under tail-coverts pale reddish-brown; beak vinous-brown; feet reddish
clay-coloured; iris dark brown. The female is altogether duller and browner than
the male, the head greener and streaked with dark brown. Young birds nearly
resemble the female, but are yellower and more streaked below, and only have
white patches on the two outer pairs of tail-feathers.

After the autumn moult the head and breast of this species are somewhat
greener, and the beak paler, more flesh-coloured.

According to Hamilton, the Hindostani name for this bird is "Jamjohara."

Respecting the habits of this bird when at liberty, Seebohm remarks:-"I
found the Ortolan Bunting breeding on the mountains in the pine-regions both
of Greece and Asia Minor. When I was at Valconswaard, we constantly heard its
plaintive monotonous song, as it sat perched for a long time on the branch of a
tree in the lanes, or in the hedges that surround the fields close to the village;
and in the wilder districts of Norway, when driving in our carioles from Lille-
hammer towards the Dovre Fjeld, it was by no means uncommon in the trees by
the roadside. It is not a shy bird, and frequently remains for a very long time
on the same twig, generally near the top of the tree, especially in the evening,
when its simple song harmonizes with the melancholy stillness of the outskirts of
the country village."

The nest of the Ortolan is formed in the latter half of May, being placed
in a slight depression on the ground amongst herbage, under bushes, or in the
open fields. It is formed of dry grass strengthened with roots, and is lined with
rootlets and hair. The eggs number from four to six, and vary from pale lilac to
rosy-salmon, boldly blotched, spotted, and slightly streaked with purplish-black,
chiefly towards the larger extremity, where the markings sometimes form an
imperfect zone; the shell-markings are violet-greyish: in form they vary much
in the same manner as eggs of the Yellow Hammer.

The food of this bird does not materially differ from that of the other species
of Emberiza, consisting mainly of insects in spring and summer, and of seeds and
grain in autumn and winter.

The song of the Ortolan Bunting consists of one melancholy whistled note
repeated five times, the fifth repetition being prolonged-"Hoo, hoo, hoo, hoo, hoooo."
I have heard it dozens of times, and am absolutely certain that this is a fact.
To be sure of a song, it is necessary to make a note of the exact sounds whilst
the bird is uttering them; if you wait until you are lying in bed in a somnolent
condition and attempt to recall a song, you may feel quite positive that you have
hit upon the very notes; you reach over to your pockets and abstract pencil and
paper to jot the phrase down before it escapes you: later on, you compare your
