upon as the chief home of this species, where they (sic) may be met with at all
seasons uttering their somewhat harsh and unvaried notes from the tops of the
bushes, or whilst clinging to the reed stems; and in these localities the nests are
built on the ground, frequently at the foot of a small bush, placed in a hollow
amongst the soft moss that forms the foundation."

It was around these broads that I first met with the Reed-Bunting in any
numbers; I had seen individual examples from time to time not far from Canter-
bury, but I never obtained the nest until 1885, when I first met with it on
Hickling Marsh on the 13th May, and Mr. Salter sent me a second taken at
Dounton, in Salisbury, on the 21st May. Curiously enough, although I had never
come across it during many years in which I had birds'-nested in Kent, the month
after I had secured these two nests, my friend, Mr. William Drake, forwarded a
third to me which he had found on the saltings at Kemsley, near Sheppy. When
at the broads, in June, 1886, I dropped upon a nest (on the 2nd of the month)
at Mudfleet, containing five entirely unmarked eggs, but these were so much
incubated and so brittle that, with the greatest care, I was only able to save
two of them. (See fig. 198.)

All my nests were in slight depressions in mossy ground, sodden with wet
and not always safe to walk upon, even with bare feet and trousers rolled up
above the knees; indeed I and my companion Mr. O. Jansen had to walk very
circumspectly, part of the marsh here and there being detached and simply
floating in a pool of deep water, so that as you put a foot down it would dip
under, wetting you frequently to above the ankle. The nests are not con-
spicuous, are partly overhung by wiry grass-tussocks or sedge, and might easily
be overlooked, excepting for the presence of the birds which causes one to search
for them carefully: but to men whose eyes have been trained, as Entomologists,
from their boyhood, and who have been accustomed to recognize and pounce
upon tiny ground insects, a bird's nest is a very large and conspicuous object,
however cleverly concealed. This is a very strong argument against the theory
as to the cause of mimicry in nature; for it seems to me absurd to argue that
insectivorous birds, whose eyesight is so keen and quick that they can follow
every movement of the tiniest insect on the wing, should, when anxious for food,
be deceived by the vague resemblance of a conspicuous moth to a dead leaf;*
that the powerful vision of a predaceous bird should be utterly unable to detect a
sitting bird on account of her subdued colouring, or her nest because its walls
were decked with lichen. That mimicry does exist we know; that it renders
