according to Mr. Seebohm, not only the commonest, but also the most widely
distributed bird on the tundras. In Asia it migrates further southwards than in
Europe, reaching to about 30° N. lat. in China; whereas it is rare in the south
of Russia and in Northern Italy, and as yet unknown in Spain. In Central
Europe its occurrences are accidental, but further north they are naturally more
frequent, and are regular on Heligoland in autumn. In America this species
breeds throughout the far north; wintering in South Carolina, Kansas, and
Colorado." (Howard Saunders, Manual of British Birds, pp. 213-214).

To Great Britain this species is an occasional, though not very infrequent
visitor; upwards of forty examples apparently having been obtained previous to
1890, since Selby first recognized the bird, amongst some Larks forwarded to
Leadenhall Market from Cambridgeshire, early in 1826. Since 1890 this species
has visited us more frequently. In October and November, 1892, J. H. Gurney
stated that at least fifty-six were netted and shot in Norfolk. In the following
year considerable numbers were seen on the Lincolnshire coast, a good many were
recorded as having passed along the downs in February. In November of the
same year a flock of from sixty to eighty was seen near Flamborough by Matthew
Bailey, and later a flock of from a hundred to a hundred and twenty by J.
Cordeaux. In the Zoologist for 1894, the late Rev. H. A. Macpherson stated
that in the southern counties a few had been taken annually for the past dozen
years near Dover, but that in November, 1893, only three were caught near
Brighton. In 1900 Mr. Patterson reported their annual occurrence in greater or
less numbers in Norfolk, and occurrences of the species in Sussex, Warwick,
Yorkshire, Scotland, and Ireland have been recorded up to 1907.

The male in breeding-plumage has the head, including the throat, and the
breast velvety-black; a broad white superciliary stripe extends backwards over the
ear-coverts, and is continued downwards on the sides of the neck; across the back
of the neck is a broad collar of bright chestnut; the remainder of the upper
surface (including the wing-coverts and secondaries) is blackish, the feathers
bordered with tawny-buff, or creamy-whitish; the primaries and tail-feathers deep
brown, with narrow ashy margins, the two outer pairs of tail-feathers with elon-
gated dull white patches on the inner webs: remainder of under surface creamy-
white, with black streaks on the flanks: beak yellow, tipped with black; feet
blackish-brown; iris hazel. The female is paler above and without the defined
collar on the nape, the feathers of the crown have tawny-margins, and a whitish
stripe runs down the centre of the head: the ear-coverts are brown, partly edged
with blackish; the cheeks and under surface are creamy white: a black line run-
ning below the cheeks to the upper throat, where the feathers are also black,
