though partly concealed by broad whitish borders. After the autumn moult all
the feathers have pale tawny borders, but the distinguishing characteristics of the
male are not wholly lost. The young nearly resemble the female, but are more
tawny and more uniformly streaked above.

There is always a chance of anyone familiar with the appearance of this
species being fortunate enough to observe and recognize it upon our coasts during
the autumn or spring migrations: since the completion of Howard Saunders'
Manual, numerous examples have been either killed or noticed. Even as late in
the year as the 11th May, Mr. John Cordeaux ("Zoologist" 1893, p. 225)
observed au adult male in full summer dress on the short herbage on the edge
of the Bempton Cliffs, in Yorkshire. Mr. Cordeaux, who was accompanied by
Mr. M. Bailey, of Flamborough, says:-"We both observed it for some little time
through our glasses about half a dozen yards away, till it flew down the cliff-face
amongst a crowd of Guillemots and other rock birds, and did not after this show
itself again. What particularly struck me when watching this bird was the
intense black of the dark parts as contrasted with the yellow bill, broad white
streak over and backward from the eye, and chestnut collar."

Judging from Seebohm's account of this species it is, as might be expected,
a late breeder, he says:-"In the valley of the Petchora we did not meet with it
at Ust Zylma, in lat. 66°, until the 18th of May; and in the valley of the Yenesay,
on the Koorayika, in lat. 66½°, a solitary Lapland Bunting appeared for the first
time on the 4th of June-in each case at least six weeks after the arrival of the
Snow-Bunting. In both cases I had an excellent opportunity of watching their
habits. The first birds to arrive were males, principally in company with Shore-
Larks; they passed through on migration for about a fortnight, the latter flocks
being almost entirely composed of females. They seem to be entirely ground-
feeders, and ran about very actively wherever there was any bare ground; but
before the snow had entirely disappeared the Lapland Buntings had also taken
their departure, and we did not meet with them again until we had passed the
limit of forest growth. On migration they repeatedly perched in trees, and when
disturbed generally sought refuge in a tree. Like the Shore-Lark and the Snow-
Bunting, the Lapland Bunting occasionally hops; its flight is quick and powerful,
but more undulating than that of the Snow-Bunting. In its song the Lapland
Bunting reminds one both of the Snow-Bunting and the Tree Pipit. The notes
are not very loud, but are musical, and are continued for some time; and every
now and then a curious note is introduced which sounds like cheng, the consonants,
both at the beginning and the end, being pronounced gutturally, as in German.
This note is also frequently repeated alone, and is probably the note of endearment
