between the sexes.* The song is generally heard when the bird is flying in the
air, soaring like a Lark, and is continued until the bird alights on some grassy
knoll or stunted bush, descending with outspread wings and tail. What I take
to be the alarm-note of this bird is a plaintive but loud chee-up, often heard near
its nest. The female has a song almost as rich as that of the male. The Lapland
Bunting is not such a coast bird as the Snow-Bunting, and seeks the swampiest
ground it can find so long as there are dry tussocks of grass full of flowers where
it can breed; if there are also a few stunted willows or birches upon which it can
perch, so much the better. The nest is almost always placed in some hole in the
side of one of the little mounds or tussocks which abound on the marshy parts of
the tundra; it is composed of dry grass and roots, and profusely lined with feathers.
The eggs of the Lapland Bunting are from four to six in number, and differ very
much both in size and colour. They vary in ground-colour from pale grey to pale
brown, more or less obscured by a profusion of underlying blotches and streaks,
which vary in colour from yellowish-brown to reddish-brown; the overlying
markings are generally much fewer, and are principally streaks mixed with a few
blotches and spots of dark reddish-brown." (Hist. British Birds, Vol. II, pp. 132,
133).

Herr Gätke states that this species, in its character, "is altogether unlike the
Snow-Bunting, having nothing of the boisterousness and wildness of that species,
but being of a gentle and quiet disposition. Indeed, I have frequently for years
kept it confined in a cage, and its melodious, if somewhat melancholy, tune has
given me much enjoyment during many a summer night spent at my desk over
these pages. The song of the Snow-Bunting has exactly the same character; but
the melodious, flute-like notes are fuller, and the bird in confinement will only
give utterance to them during the first hours of June and July nights. The Snow-
Bunting remains, however, so utterly intractable, crying like one possessed when
any person approaches its cage, that it is impossible to make friends with it, and
one generally ends by once more giving the peevish fellow his liberty.

The Lapland Bunting, on the other hand, ceases fluttering after one or two
weeks confinement if one keeps renewing its food, and soon becomes so tame that
it will take flies from the fingers. It also invariably accomplishes its autumn
moult to perfection, and in a very short time." (Birds of Heligoland, pp. 385-386.)

Stevenson's experience of this species as a cage-bird seems to have been much
the same as Gätke's; he says:-"Unlike most birds when first confined in a cage,
it seemed perfectly at home, feeding readily on the seed placed for it, and both
