and Ireland, this bird is decidedly commoner in Scotland, where a few pairs remain
to breed: the first nest being obtained in the Shetlands by Saxby, on July 2nd,
1861. In July, 1886, Messrs. Peach and Hinaman found nest and young in
Sutherlandshire, and in June, 1888, Mr. John Young discovered a nest with five
eggs. I believe it was obtained later by Mr. W. R. O. Grant. In 1903 nests
were found on the spurs of the Grampians, stretching southwards between Rannoch
and Glen Lyon, and in 1905 on a mountain still further south.

The adult male in breeding-plumage has the mantle, scapulars, inner second-
aries, terminal half of primaries, four central tail-feathers and greater part of the
next pair black; the outer webs edged with white; outer feathers mostly white;
centre of lower back and rump black (with white edges to the feathers) but the
sides white; remainder of plumage white; beak and feet leaden-black; iris deep
hazel. The female has all the black parts of the plumage greyer, and with pale
edges to the feathers, the head and neck mottled with blackish. After the autumn
moult the feathers of the upper surface, breast, and flanks are bordered with dull
chestnut, which gradually changes to white during the winter, and the beak
becomes orange-ochreous tipped with blackish. The young are greyish, with dark
centres to most of the feathers, but the wings and tail resembling the autumn
plumage of the adults.

This bird has received many trivial names, such as-The Lesser Pied Mountain
Finch, The Snow-bird from Hudson's Bay, The Tawny Bunting, The Mountain
Bunting, The Lorrain Bunting; but its prettiest name (and that by which it is
almost as well-known as Snow-Bunting) is Snow-flake.

Seebohm writes respecting the habits of this bird as follows:-"The flight of
the Snow-Bunting is peculiar, and is something like that of a butterfly, as if the
bird altered its mind every few seconds as to which direction it wished to take.
It can scarcely be called an undulating flight. The bird certainly does rest its
wings every few seconds; but either they are expanded when at rest, or they are
rested for so short a time that the plane of flight is not sufficiently altered to
warrant its being called undulating. The Snow-Bunting is almost entirely a
ground-feeder, and is consequently continually seen on the ground. These birds
run along the snow with the celerity of a Wagtail on a sand-bank; but they can
hop as easily as a Sparrow, and I have very often seen them do so. The idea
that they seldom or never perch on trees is a mistake, which has no doubt arisen
from the circumstance that on the steppes, where they delight to winter, and on
the tundra, where they breed, there are no trees. In the valley of the Petchora,
we had abundant opportunity of seeing them in trees." (Hist. Brit. Birds, Vol. II,
pp. 127-128).
