Lord Lilford observes:-"In the few instances in which, * * * *, we met
with this bird in the highlands of Inverness-shire, we found it exceedingly tame,
running about within a few yards of us, and feeding on the seeds of various
grasses which grew by the burn-sides; in one instance the bird was so confiding
that I nearly caught it with my cap; but this was no doubt caused by the fact
that a Merlin was hunting over the moss at the moment when the 'Snow-flake,'
as this bird is often called, fluttered up at our feet. The call-note of this species
is pleasing and musical, and the male has an agreeable song, which, however, I
have only heard from a caged bird. In captivity the Snow-Bunting will eat
almost any sort of seed, and generally dies of plethora unless strictly dieted."
(Birds of Northamptonshire, Vol. I, pp. 171-172),

Mr. Saxby speaking of them in Shetland, says:-"Seen against a dark hill-
side or a lowering sky, a flock of these birds presents an exceedingly beautiful
appearance, and it may then be seen how aptly the term "Snowflake" has been
applied to the species. I am acquainted with no more pleasing combination of
sight and sound than that afforded when a number of these birds, backed by a
dark grey sky, drop as it were in a shower to the ground, to the music of their
own sweet tinkling notes." (Zoologist, p. 9484).

The nidification of the Snow-Bunting is late; most nests being apparently
obtainable in June and July, although in Iceland it nests as early as May; it
chooses heaps of stones, crevices in rocks or behind boulders, or piles of drift-
wood in which to build.

The nest is bulky and constructed of dry grass, rootlets, sometimes birch or
other twigs, and a little moss: it is lined with down, hair, and a quantity of feathers.
The eggs number from four to eight; six or seven being (according to Seebohm)
a usual clutch. Both in size and colouring they vary considerably, the ground-
colour being creamy or greyish-white, or pale greenish, spotted and blotched with
chocolate, and occasionally striated with blackish; the shell-markings are pale
reddish-brown and lavender; most of the markings are usually collected towards
or at the larger extremity.

The food during the breeding-season consists largely of insects, but at other
times all kinds of seed are eaten, as well as corn. John Cordeaux says (Birds of
the Humber District):-"The little Snow-flake will find food and thrive in the
severest winters, after all our small feathered friends have been driven by frost and
snow from the cold and exposed marshes, feeding on the seeds of various grasses
picked from the withered bents rising above the carpet of snow. They are nearly
always excessively fat." "Roosts generally amongst rough grass on the pastures."

During incubation, the male bird is in full song, its notes being heard both
