when perched or fluttering in the air, like a Tree Pipit: the song is described as
a melodious warble, similar to that of the Lapland Bunting and Shore-Lark; when
flocks of this and other species are flying together they are said to twitter after
the manner of other Finches; the alarm note is described as a loud tweek, and the
bird has another note resembling the harsh zshweeo of the Greenfinch and Brambling,
but Lord Lilford's observations* prove that this is not the call-note; it is more
probably a note of defiance: indeed Saxby probably means this note in his
description of "the sudden jarring sound which is uttered by the bird when suddenly
directing its course towards a neighbour. That the note in question is sometimes
one of anger I have repeatedly observed when two of the birds have been quarrelling
over their food." (Birds of Shetland, p. 91.)

As a cage-bird, the Snow-Bunting, in spite of Herr Gätke's adverse estimate,
is pretty generally admired; and is very frequently exhibited at shows. Stevenson's
opinion of the species certainly differed widely from that of the veteran of Heligo-
land, for he says:-"In confinement, I have found the Snow-Buntings very gentle
in disposition and extremely affectionate to one another, forming an amiable
contrast in both respects to the Brambling Finches. A pair, which were kindly
sent me for my aviary in 1862, by Mr. Fowler, of Gunton, near Lowestoft, netted
from a very large number at that time frequenting the Corton beach, attained very
nearly their full summer plumage, their beaks also, which are yellow in winter,
assuming a dark leaden tint. Both these birds, unfortunately, suffered from a
diseased state of the feet, which were painfully swollen, and the scutella on the
anterior portion of the tarsi and toes were greatly enlarged and ragged. With
this exception, they lived in apparently good health till the autumn of 1863, when
the female wasted away and died, and the male survived his partner only a few
weeks."

It is certain that the Snow-Bunting ought not to be restricted to a cage,
unless it be a very large one: half the charm of this beautiful species consists in
seeing it fly: moreover it is only to be expected that a bird accustomed to wander
over some of the wildest regions of the earth and sea, should feel stunned and
miserable when confined within narrow limits and constantly subjected to inspection
in a stuffy room. An out-door aviary would be the most suitable home for it, and
the larger the better. Swaysland indeed states that "as it is a somewhat dull
bird, it is not desirable for either cage or aviary," and others have told me that
it makes a stupid cage-bird; but Swaysland gives no details; indeed his account
of the species inclines one to the belief that he is not speaking from personal
experience: in any case its song should atone for everything, for Captain H. W.
