Fielden (P.Z.S., 1877, p. 30) in a paper on the birds of the North Polar Basin,
says:-"On the 13th May, 1876, I heard the first Snow-Bunting (Plectrophanes
nivalis) as we lay in our tent on the floe at the base of a cliff. The note came
from above, clear and musical, and each inmate of the tent started into a sitting-
posture, and said 'Hush, hush, do you hear it?' One of the sailors said to me,
'What bird is that sir? it is sweeter than a throstle.'"

My friend Mr. David Seth-Smith had a pair for a considerable time and may
perhaps still have them; I have seen them flying about in one of his garden
aviaries many times, but never heard the song.

FAMILY STURNIDÆ.

THE Starlings are an Old World family of birds linked to the Finches through
the Icteridæ or Troupials and Cow-birds of the New World; but, on the other
hand, showing affinity to the Corvidæ or Crow-family. They are character-
ized by a long straight slender bill, with the nostrils placed low down, without
rictal bristles; a very small bastard primary and very long second primary; the
tarsus is scaled in front, but not behind.

Starlings when on the ground progress in a purposeless, irregular fashion,
mostly by walking or running; on the wing their flight is powerful, but peculiar,
so that, when at a great height, it has a twinkling appearance; when at a lower
elevation this is explained by the fact that they rapidly flap their somewhat long
wings and then sail straight forwards.

These birds are practically omnivorous, always hungry and consequently large
feeders; they are, therefore, unsuitable for caged pets, unless considerable attention
can be paid to them by their owners: in themselves, however, they are cleanly,
being exceedingly fond of bathing.

The songs of Starlings are either altogether, or partly, harsh in character;
in which respect and in their powers of mimicry, they somewhat resemble their
allies the Crows. Like the latter also they soon become tame and confiding in
captivity; in which respect they widely differ from some of the Icteridæ which
never seem to get the least bit tamer after years of confinement in an aviary,
