Wales it was somewhat rare at that season, now it is everywhere abundant in
North Wales. In Scotland, where it used to be by no means abundant, excepting
in some of the islands, it is now very common in nearly every county.

The adult male in breeding-plumage is glossy black, brightly shot with metallic
green, rosy-violet, and Prussian blue, the rosy and purplish tints being usually
most prevalent on the head, nape, mantle, and breast; the bluer feathers varying
in certain lights to Prussian green: the feathers of the upper surface, excepting
the head and fore-neck, tipped with dead gold, or sandy buff; flights and tail-
feathers dark smoky-brown, bordered with black, and edged with sandy-buff; thighs
and under tail-coverts blackish, the latter with broad buff margins: bill lemon-
yellow; feet reddish-brown; iris hazel. The female is less metallic than the male
and has larger buff tips to the feathers, the under surface of the body being more
or less spotted throughout the year; the bill is also blackish towards the tip.

After the autumn moult all the feathers of the upper parts are broadly tipped
with sandy-buff; the wing-feathers are greyer; and the sides of the face and under
surface are more or less conspicuously spotted with white: * the bill also becomes
partly, or altogether, dark brown. The young are greyish-brown, the quill and
tail-feathers margined with pale brown, and the feathers of the under parts with
whitish margins.

There is considerable difference in the metallic colouring of individual Starlings:
the example which I have noted below, as being heavily white-spotted in winter,
used to develop the most brilliant violet on neck and breast in the breeding-season;
the blue and green tints were also very bright; whilst the buff markings above
had a well-defined golden gloss: indeed, the whole bird appeared as if formed out
of burnished metal.

Wherever the House-Sparrow is, one may be pretty certain to meet with the
Starling either in town or country: it is a bird which is always conspicuous,
whether on the wing or on the ground: in spring one sees a dozen or more
flying round a Rook, regularly mobbing him as he carries home some grub to his
callow young, until in his fright he drops the dainty morsel and down go the
Starlings with much noise to quarrel over it; later the tables are turned, the
Starling as it carries food to its young being similarly tormented by Sparrows.
Now one sees the male bird sitting high up on some naked branch, on a chimney-
pot, or the corner of a gable, discoursing what he evidently considers sweet music.

Marvellous is the song of a Starling! a curious combination of whistling,
squeaking, gargling, and the sucking hiss made by pulling out the handle of a
