brass garden squirt: a few of the whistled notes are clear, and the song, if not
melodious, is at any rate comical enough to be not unpleasant: moreover the
energy which the bird puts into the performance is ridiculous; his head is some-
what retracted, the feathers of crown and throat all somewhat raised, his bill wide
open, his wings quivering, and his whole body shaking. As the late Mr. Witchell
observes: "In early spring the phrases of the Starling are concluded with a harsh
squealing cry." He tells us that he has heard about half-a-dozen of these birds
singing the following phrase in chorus; that the intervals were fairly correct,

and the unison was seemingly perfect: he says that one bird commenced the
phrase with the first two notes and then the others joined in. I cannot say that
I have ever had a similar experience; but then I have not had the musical
training which Mr. Witchell had received.

The warning-cry of the Starling is a cah, not unlike that of a rook, but the
cry of terror is a harsh shrieking; then there is a prolonged reedy whistle,
apparently a note of excitement, only heard in the spring; and lastly there is
the call of the male bird to his mate:-Foey dee-ur hee-ur (the hee very much
prolonged).* The cry of the young for food is very loud and harsh.

The nest is placed in any hole in a tree, a bank, a cutting, a sand- or chalk-
pit, a rock, wall, ruin, chimney, in thatches, or roofing of summer-houses, cottages,
and out-houses, in stove- or gutter-pipes. It is roughly constructed of grass or
straw, sometimes with a lining of wool and a few feathers, and usually contains
from four to six eggs, though sometimes only three, smooth and somewhat glossy
and beautifully oval; always unspotted, but varying in tint from bluish-white to
turquoise-blue; an intermediate shade between these extremes being the commonest
type.

In my "Handbook of British Oology" I have described a curious nest which
I took from the stove-pipe to a conservatory at the village of Upchurch, near
Newington, Kent, and which filled no less than twelve feet of 4-inch piping: we
took the latter to pieces and pushed the nest out in form of a long cylinder.
This nest was entirely constructed of fragments of straw or bast, with a few long
pieces at the sides, and had been collected since the arrival of mild weather and
the consequent disuse of the stove. It contained three partly incubated eggs,
which were about a foot from the top of the pipe. I do not believe that, if
