In Great Britain the first recorded specimen was killed at Norwood, in Surrey,
and was described in 1743; since then it has been met with in almost every
county; the latest occurrences being of one observed on an apple-tree at Greatham,
near Liss, in Hampshire, on May 4th, 1896, and secured by its observer (Vide
Zoologist, 1896, p. 382), three in Ireland and one in Scilly in 1899, one in
Kent and another in Yorkshire in 1901, one in Shetland in 1903, and five
or six in 1906.

The male in breeding-plumage has the head, neck, and breast glossy purplish
black; the wings including the coverts, the tail and coverts of both surfaces glossy
greenish-black, and the remainder of both surfaces pale salmon-rose; the bill is
also rose-coloured, but more orange towards the base, which is blackish; the feet
brown; iris bright brown. The female is altogether duller, and has a somewhat
smaller crest. After the autumn moult the black feathers are tipped with greyish-
brown, and the rosy feathers with dusky brown, the crest being also undeveloped;
but a gradual change takes place in the spring. The young are very similar to
adults in winter plumage, but show no trace of black or rose-colour on the feathers,
their wing- and tail-feathers have buff edges; the bill is browner, and the feet
are more flesh-tinted.

Like the common Starling this bird is eminently gregarious in its habits.
Jerdon observes that "it usually makes its appearance in the Deccan and Carnatic
about November, associating in vast flocks, and committing great devastations on
the grain fields, more especially on those of the Cholum or Jowaree (Andropogon
sorghus)"; he then quotes the following from Mr. Elliot's manuscript notes:-
"Is very voracious and injurious to the crops of white Jowaree, in the fields of
which the farmer is obliged to station numerous watchers, who, with slings and a
long rope or thong, which they crack dexterously, making a loud report, endeavour
to drive the depredators away. The moment the sun appears above the horizon
they are on the wing, and at the same instant shouts, cries, and the cracking of
the long whips, resound from every side. The Tillyers, however, are so active
that if they are able to alight on the stalks for an instant, they can pick out
several grains. About 9 or 10 o'clock a.m., the exertions of the watchmen cease,
and the Tillyers do not renew their plundering till evening. After sunset they
are seen in flocks of many thousands retiring to the trees and jungles for the
night. They prefer the half ripe Jowaree whilst the farinaceous matter is still
soft and milky."

It must not, however, be supposed that the Rose-coloured Pastor is altogether
injurious to agriculture: on the contrary it does good service by its wholesale
destruction of locusts and other noxious insects. Seebohm gives the following
