account of it in his History of British Birds:-"In driving across the steppes
between the Danube and the Black Sea we now and then came upon small flocks
of these birds. At a distance they are indistinguishable from common Starlings;
they run along the ground in the same way, they have the same rapid straight
flight, and the same habit of clustering together. On the ground they feed
with the same eager anxiety, but frequently perch on the stunted bushes, when
their pink colour is very conspicuous. The notes of this bird are almost exactly
the same as those of the Starling, they chatter together in the same way, and in
confinement the low warble mixed with the chatter is very similar in both species.
In most places where this bird breeds it is protected on account of the enormous
number of locusts it devours. In autumn it takes its toll on the fruit (mulberries,
cherries, etc.); but its usefulness in spring is so apparent, that the Greeks and
Turks do not begrudge it so small a trifle. In Asia Minor, as in the Dobrudscha,
I had the misfortune to arrive the day after the fair. Dr. Krüper and I were
informed by our friend Guido von Gonzenbach that the Rose-coloured Starlings
had bred in the previous spring (1871) in enormous numbers in the neighbourhood
of Smyrna, and had devoured the grubs and locusts to the admiration of the
peasantry."

The nest of the Rose-coloured Starling is built in holes or crevices in rocks,
heaps of stones, earth-cliffs, quarries, walls, and old ruins, and is said to be strongly
constructed, not unlike that of a Blackbird; but at times a mere accumulation of
sticks, straws, and various dead plants, with a central depression for the eggs
lined with plant fibre, leaves, moss, and feathers. The eggs number from five to
six, and are glossy white with the faintest bluish tinge.

This species appears to be single-brooded; the hen is a close sitter and is fed
upon the nest by the male bird, chiefly with locusts.

It appears to be generally admitted by Ornithologists that the favourite food
of the Rose-coloured Starling consists in early summer of locusts, and later of
cherries: in confinement it eats cockroaches with avidity: it should certainly
never be fed as that unfortunate example was, which many years ago was winged
at Chelmondiston, in Suffolk, and is said by Messrs. Sheppard and Whitear to
have been kept alive for three months on raw meat. All true Starlings will eat
meat, but it is not good for them, though less injurious than in the case of
members of the family Turdidæ.

Lord Lilford observes that "The Rose-coloured Pastor thrives well in captivity,
but the constant chatter of even a single bird is almost overpowering in a room."
Doubtless this is the case, but no rank-feeding voracious birds are suitable
pets for a dwelling-room, for other reasons: in a bird-room they are more
