Family-CORVIDÆ.

THE CHOUGH.

Pyrrhocorax graculus, LINN.

IN a cage the general aspect of this bird is rather that of a Starling than a
Crow; but on the wing it has a decidedly more Corvine character. Of its
distribution outside the British Isles, Howard Saunders says:-"In the
Channel Islands, especially Guernsey, the Chough is tolerably common, and it
breeds in some of the rocky portions of the north-western and west coasts of
France, as well as in those of Portugal. It is, however, in inland, mountainous
situations, such as some parts of the Alps, the Carpathians, the Parnassus, the
Urals, the Appenines, the Pyrenees, and the south of Spain, that it is most
abundant, while on the rocky islands of the Mediterranean it is plentiful; it is
also resident in the hill-regions of Northern Africa, Abyssinia, Arabia, Asia Minor,
the Caucasus, and Persia, and throughout the mountain ranges of Asia, as far as
north-eastern China."

Although scarcely a migratory species, it is considered capricious, inasmuch
as localities long inhabited by it are, for no apparent reason, suddenly abandoned;
in Great Britain this has been especially noticed. In 1868 and 1869, I observed
great numbers of Choughs about the cliffs at Clifton, and again between Linton
and Ilfracombe, but some twenty years ago a friend who was staying at the latter
place had the greatest difficulty in obtaining an egg of the species. Seebohm
observes:-"It still breeds in Cornwall, the north of Devon, on Lundy Island,* and
at many places on the Welsh coast, in Glamorgan, Pembroke, Angelsey, Flint,
Denbigh, and possibly on the rocks of the Calf of Man. On the east coast of
England, More states ("Ibis," 1865, p. 132) that a few pairs were known to nest
near Fast Castle, in Berwickshire, and Hancock corroborates the statement, whilst
in the Channel Islands the bird, although local, still breeds. In Scotland it appears
to have been much commoner recently than at the present time, and to have
now quite deserted its inland haunts, being only found on the ocean cliffs."
"In Ireland the numbers have also decreased."
