Family-CORVIDÆ.

THE NUTCRACKER.

Nucifraga caryocatactes, LINN.

OCCURS in pine-forests throughout the Palæarctic region; breeding in
Europe, in South Norway, Sweden, some of the islands of the Baltic, the
Black Forest, the Alps, Carpathians, and mountains of Hungary: it
probably breeds also in the mountains of Southern Spain and Sardinia. Although
apparently a resident bird in the countries of its birth, it occasionally wanders in
winter, occurring in various other portions of Europe, as well as in Japan and
North China.

To Great Britain the Nutcracker is an occasional straggler, about twenty-five
tolerably well authenticated instances of its appearance in our islands having
occurred, usually in autumn or at the commencement of winter; but in May,
1899 one frequented a fir-plantation near Thetford, Norfolk, one was shot at Ilkley,
Yorkshire, in January 1901, and another at Benenden, Kent, in January 1905. In
Scotland it has occurred, but not in Ireland.

In colouring the Nutcracker is dull chocolate, freely spotted with white,
excepting on the crown, wings, and tail: wings greenish-black, some of the
secondaries tipped with white; the tail feathers black, tipped with white; bill
brownish-black; feet black; iris brown. Female similar, but rather smaller and
with the wings slightly browner. Young sordid brownish, with the spots greyish,
but otherwise like adults.

Stevenson (Birds of Norfolk, p. 284) commenting upon the difference in the
form of the bill in various examples of this bird shot in Great Britain, suggests
that it is a sexual character; the distinctions which he records are exactly such
as one would expect to find-the male with a stout straight bill, the female with
a longer and decidedly narrower one.* I believe that all Passerine birds differ
sexually in this respect, and that the male birds recognize the females by their
faces alone; indeed there is little difficulty in detecting the dissimilarity in the
features of any of these birds, when the sexes are compared side by side. Using
