this character alone, which was first pointed out to me by Mr. Joseph Abrahams,
I have never yet failed to correctly pair up the sexes of birds for breeding
purposes, where no assistance could be gained by a study of the plumage. I am,
therefore, certain that its importance has not been appreciated by Ornithologists.

In his account of the Nutcracker, Seebohm takes the late Rev. F. O. Morris
somewhat too seriously: there is no doubt that when the latter gentleman compiled
his work on British Birds, he was unable to discover any facts relating to the
nidification of our species, and, therefore, fell back upon the nesting habits of the
genus as given in Jerdon's Birds of India, where we read-"They breed in holes
in trees, which they excavate, or enlarge, with their powerful Woodpecker-like
bills," etc., and doubtless when the revised edition was published in 1870, Mr.
Morris had not discovered that a genuine description of the nest had been pub-
lished in 1862, which differed in all points from that accepted by Dr. Jerdon.

In June, 1862, Professor Newton exhibited the nest and fully fledged young
of this species at a meeting of the Zoological Society of London: he had received
them from Pastor Theobald, and J. C. H. Fisher, of Copenhagen, who had taken
them in Bornholm. At that time they had failed to secure eggs of the species.
At a meeting in January, 1867, Professor Newton exhibited a nest with four eggs,
observing:-"In 1863, my friends were again disappointed of getting the eggs of
this bird, which proved to be a still earlier breeder than they had given it credit
for; and on the 9th of April three young ones were found. In 1864 they deter-
mined to 'be wise in time.' They kept two young men on the watch all the
winter, and as spring approached careful search was made. At length, on the
23rd of March, after eight days' labour, the nest was found, in the same part of
the forest as the nest of the year before, being indeed only some fifty feet from
the same spot. It was, therefore, in all probability, built by the same pair of
birds. It was in a fir tree, about fifty feet high, and built quite in the same
manner as that of the former year. The seeker took the precaution first to climb
up a near-extending tree, and then, seeing the Nutcracker on the nest, ascended
the nest-tree itself and took the four eggs, which, when sent to Herr Theobald,
were blown by him and found to be quite fresh."

In 1865, owing to the severity of the preceding winter, these gentlemen did
not receive a nest quite so early, their seekers only discovering one containing
three eggs on the 10th of April; but they secured a second, with four eggs, on
the 30th of the same month: finally, in March 1866, a nest with one egg was
found, but the birds deserted it without laying again. Seebohm observes that
"the breeding-season of the Nutcracker in the Arctic regions is evidently June
and July-at least ten weeks later than in Central Europe."
