The situation of the nest is said to be always on a not very tall pine-tree,
from eighteen to twenty-five feet from the ground, on a branch against the stem.
It is about a foot in diameter, about five inches in depth, with the cavity four
inches in diameter, and from one and a half to two inches in depth. The
foundation is composed of lichen-covered twigs of larch and spruce, finished off
with fresh birch-twigs, and lined with dry grass and the inner bark of trees, with
a little loose earth; the final lining is grass, generally dry, but sometimes fresh."
The number of eggs is from three to five; they are bluish or creamy-white, with
the surface-spots olive or leather-brown, and with grey shell-spots: in the distri-
bution of the markings and their size they vary much as in other Corvidæ.

Although, in the winter, Seebohm says that "Their tameness was quite absurd.
They allowed us to go within three feet of them; and sometimes they even
permitted us to touch them with a stick," this confidence disappears during the
breeding-season when they become very shy and wary.

The food of the Nutcracker consists of insects of all kinds and their larvæ,
the larger dung-beetles having been found in its stomach, as well as many other
species of different Orders, seeds of conifers, nuts, acorns, berries, etc. It is
probable that it also devours the eggs and newly hatched young of other birds.

Seebohm mentions two notes:-the first, which he considers to be the call-
note, is a sort of plaintive kray, kray; the other, which he thinks is the alarm-note
is a loud grating kr-kr-kr.

The following notes respecting the Nutcracker in captivity were kindly
forwarded to me by the late Rev. H. A. Macpherson.

"It was early in the year 1893 that a pair of Nutcrackers entered my
possession. I understood that the London dealer from whom I purchased them
had received them from Hungary. They were in fine condition, and I placed
them in an out-door aviary. The plumage of these birds was identical, but the
male was a finer and larger bird than his companion. Their lively movements
recalled my observations of this species in the Bernese Oberland. All their actions
were sprightly and animated. The agility with which the Nutcracker hops from
one branch of pine to another resembles the action of the Common Jay. These
tame birds lived upon Spanish nuts. We usually broke the nuts open for them,
but they could perform the task for themselves. The Nutcracker first inserts a
nut into a suitable crevice, and then breaks it with repeated blows of the bill.
The nut is then shelled, and the kernel is swallowed, the outside being allowed
to fall to the ground.

The male bird seemed to tyrannize over his mate, at least he gave her many
sly pecks which she accepted as a matter of course. They differed occasionally
