Family-CORVIDÆ.

THE JAY.

Garrulus glandarius, LINN.

WIDELY distributed and resident throughout Europe excepting in the
south-east: in Asia and Algeria several more or less differentiated
forms occur which interbreed and produce intergrades, thus rendering
their separation by Ornithologists a very arbitrary and difficult task.

Although still fairly common in the woodlands of England, in spite of the
incessant persecution to which it is subjected by game-keepers, farmers, and
gardeners, the Jay is rapidly becoming rarer in Scotland, yet is still by no
means scarce in the southern counties, whilst in Ireland, where it was (in all
probability) at one time, pretty generally distributed, it is now not only
confined to the south, but is only of local occurrence.

About the month of October, a considerable immigration of Jays takes place,
largely adding to the number bred in Great Britain.

This beautiful bird has the crown covered by a well-defined crest, the
smaller feathers of which are tipped and the larger ones streaked with black;
nape and back vinous-brown; rump and upper tail-coverts white; wing-coverts
with the outer webs regularly barred with black, white, and silvery-blue, the inner
webs black; primaries dull black, externally edged with white, secondaries shining
black, the innermost feather mostly chestnut, the remainder with large white
patches on the basal half of the outer web; tail black, the outer pair of feathers
brownish; ear-coverts pale vinous-brown; a broad black moustachial streak from
the base of the bill; chin and throat buffish-white; breast and abdomen vinaceous,
deeper on the flanks; vent and under tail-coverts white. Bill blackish horn-brown,
feet brown, iris vinous-brownish. The female resembles the male in colouring,
but is smaller, has a shorter crest and a broader and shorter bill. The young
chiefly differ in having the iris pale blue.

It is difficult to explain how it has come about that the colouring of the
adult and young eye in the Jay has been transposed in British Bird books. Like
many other young animals this bird when a baby has innocent blue eyes, which,
however, change soon after its first moult to a vinous-brownish colour, a little
