part of it while with its beak it tugs at another, after the manner of a hawk.
My Jay would eat the orange berries of the Solanum, if hungry, but did not care
in the least for yew and privet berries. Jay No. 2 devoured peas by making a
hole in the side of the pod, and after it had got them all out it would amuse
itself by pulling the pod to pieces, no doubt to look for more. Sparrow's eggs
dropped into the cage were adroitly caught before they reached the bottom, and
a mouse or a shrew was very acceptable. Being put into the same cage as a
Carrier Pigeon and a Turtle Dove, in spite of a disabled wing, and though the
cage was nine feet long, the Jay soon despatched the latter by pecking its back."

As cage-birds Jays are great favourites, not only on account of their wonderful
powers of mimicry, but because, as Lord Lilford says, "In captivity the Jay is a
most amusing pet and becomes very tame. There is little trouble in keeping it
in good health and condition, as in the matter of food scarcely anything comes
amiss. We have found, however, that more than one of these birds in our
possession preferred the eggs of small birds to any other food."

I became possessed of a young English Jay in the summer of 1898, and
reared it satisfactorily; it proved to be the largest and most beautiful cock bird
that I ever saw, either alive or dead. Although gifted in imitating cats, dogs,
distant poultry, the sound of trumpet and jews'-harp, the splashing of water and
mixing of bird-seed, I could only succeed in teaching it to say two words-"Hullo
Jimmy!" which, however, have become its favourite utterances: it is extremely
playful and expects me to stop and have a game with it every morning at feeding-
time. For staple food I give a mixture of two parts crumb of stale household
bread, one part powdered biscuit, one part egg, one part "Century Food." It
also has fruit (not orange, it won't eat that, although my Blue-bearded Jay is
fond of it), nuts, peas; insects of various kinds, especially cockroaches, worms,
spiders and occasionally a dead mouse or bird; rarely a little minced raw beef.
