later in the year, fruit, beech-mast, acorns, and all kinds of refuse, including
carrion, are eaten.

Not only is the Jackdaw keen-sighted, as I shall presently show, but its scent
would seem to be very acute: My friend Mr. J. C. Pool, of Birmingham, wrote
(11th January, 1896), respecting a nest of this species which he found:-"The
nest was in a hole in a decaying tree about fifteen feet from the ground. I
climbed the tree, and on looking into the hole I saw a number of young ones
which seemed to be a week or ten days old. In order to ascertain the number
of young, I took three out of the nest and held them in my hand, while I looked
again into the nest and found only one remained. I then replaced the three in
the nest and left them. Next morning I passed by the bottom of the tree and
was surprised to see a young Jackdaw lying on the ground dead, and as I was
certain I had placed the three young ones properly into the nest, and also that
they could not possibly have fallen out, the nest being fully two feet below the
entrance, I again mounted the tree. Half-way up to the nest I found a second
young one lying on a branch, dead, and a third lying on a ledge inside the hole
of the tree, but about a foot from the nest. One young one still remained in
the nest alive and strong. I did not touch this one, but I subsequently observed
the old birds flying to the nest with food.

I think there is little doubt that the old birds threw out the three that I
had had in my hands, probably because they had contracted the scent. I was
visiting my friend on whose ground the tree is, last week, and I found the Jackdaws
have again nested in the same hole, but they had not hatched then. If I can
get over again before the young ones leave the nest I will try the experiment
again and test them."

Later in the year Mr. Pool wrote:-"I did not have a chance of confirming
the matter of Jackdaws, for when I went to do so, I found someone had been
before me and had taken the young ones."

In captivity, in spite of the fact that its imitative faculty is inferior to that
of the Raven, Magpie, or Jay, as also that it is the most incorrigible thief of all
the Crows, the Jackdaw is a very general favourite. It is always full of mischief
and takes quite as much delight in practical jokes as its owner gets from watching
their performance: there is something irresistibly funny in watching a Jackdaw
and a cat together; the latter anxious to indulge her selfish and indolent nature,
by curling up in the sun to sleep away the best hours of the day; whilst the
Jackdaw, equally bent on keeping her awake, slips up behind and tweaks her tail.
Before the cat can spring to her feet, swearing and spitting, the Jackdaw has
hopped sideways under a chair; and, as she swings round to avenge herself, he
