birds, nor indeed, in some cases, old ones either, being safe from its prying eyes
and carnivorous propensities. There are, however, one or two instances on record
of its having remained to nest in this neighbourhood, but not of late years."

Mr. Stevenson also quotes the following from St. John's "Natural History
and Sport in Moray," p. 59:-"It kills newly-born lambs, picking out the eyes
and tongue while the poor creature is still alive. It preys on young grouse,
partridges, hares, etc., and is very destructive to eggs of all sorts. In certain
feeding spots in the woods I have seen the remains of eggs of the most extra-
ordinary variety and number. No sooner does a wild duck, pheasant, or any bird
leave its nest, than the Hooded Crow is on the look-out, and I have no doubt
that a single pair often destroys many hundred eggs in the course of a season.
All birds seem aware of this, and Peewits, Gulls, Redshanks, etc., attack most
furiously any Crow which they see hunting near their nests. The 'hoody' is
also very fond of young ducks, and destroys great numbers. In the mountains
it is bold enough to make prize of the eggs of the eagle, peregrine falcon, or
osprey, if the parent birds happen to be driven off their nests."

In their "Notes from Redcar" ("Zoologist," 1893, p. 6), speaking of the immi-
gration of Hoodies from the 12th to the 30th of October, Messrs. T. H. Nelson,
and F. Pilling observe:-"The Hoodies are generally noticed in largest numbers
during thick weather in October and November." According to Seebohm this
species migrates by day, and Gätke says:-"In the autumn, and with favourable
weather, the migration commences at about eight o'clock in the morning, with
flocks of from fifty to one hundred individuals; the movement soon passes into a
stream of flocks, consisting of from a hundred to at least five hundred examples,
and continues in this manner, without gaps of any kind, until two o'clock in the
afternoon. We can scarcely, in a case of this kind, assume that we are dealing
with a stream or route of migration which just chances to cross Heligoland, for
the movement proceeds in equal magnitude from east to west as far as the eye
can reach. More than this, on days when powerful migrations of this kind take
place, the migration-front or column has been seen from boats eight miles north
of the island to stretch farther to the north, as far as the limits of vision extend;
while on the south it reached, simultaneously and in equal magnitude, up the
Weser, at least as far as Bremerhaven, as was determined from the steamer which
regularly plies between this island and the latter place. We thus get a migration
column of at least thirty-six geographical miles in breadth."

Herr Gätke proceeds to make many other observations of considerable interest,
which it would be well worth our readers' while to peruse, but for which we
cannot find space here; nevertheless, his concluding paragraphs are, we consider,
