FAMILY ALAUDIDÆ.

THE position in which Howard Saunders has placed this family does not
strike one as natural: it would certainly have fitted in better with one's
sense of order in Nature, to have seen it placed next to the Motacillidæ,
as in Seebohm's "History of British Birds," and as evidently advocated by Dr.
Sharpe, to judge by his remarks on the family in the "Catalogue of Birds."

It is difficult to imagine that the Larks can be more nearly related to the
Crows than to the Pipits, and one wishes that the author of the Manual had in
his arrangement borne out Seebohm's opinion-"The Larks appear to bear the
same relation to the Pipits that the Thrushes do to the Warblers," or Jerdon's-
"The Larks may be said to grade to the Finches on the one hand, through
Montifringilla and Plectrophanes; and, on the other, into the Pipits through
Corydalla."

The chief characteristic of the family is the scutellation at the back of
the tarsus; and it is probably because of this peculiarity (and not because
they are allied to the Crows), that Howard Saunders subordinating his own
views, as he says, "to those of the majority of the B. O. U. Committee re-
specting the positions of the Alaudidæ and the Corvidæ" has placed the Larks
at the end of the Passeres, all the other groups having the feet scaled only
in front.

The Larks are walking birds, building and in many species roosting on
the ground: with the exception of the more arboreal forms, they rarely perch
on trees; and when they do, they select the thicker branches. They do not
wash, but dust themselves after the manner of Sparrows or Gallinaceous birds.
Their food consists of spiders, centipedes, insects, larvæ, and seeds or grain.

Larks are powerful flyers, their wings being large and pointed; the wings
of the males are also as a rule stronger and more elongated than those of the
females, doubtless to enable them to maintain their soaring hovering flight when
singing: as a natural result of this increase of wing-power the sternum is some-
what more prominent, giving greater fulness to the chest. By these characters
the bird-catchers are enabled to tell the sex of Larks directly they grasp them,
the male being, in their own words, "a handful."

Colonel Charles Bingham tells me that the sex of a Lark can always be told
by the length of the hind claw, which is distinctly longer in the males than in
the females.
