the second feather white on the outer web only: under parts buffish-white, spotted
and streaked with blackish-brown on the throat, breast and flanks; bill dark
brown above, paler below; feet yellowish-brown; iris hazel. The female is rather
smaller than the male, and has shorter wings, but does not differ in plumage:
young birds have broad buff tips to the feathers. After the autumn moult both
sexes are more tawny in colouring.

In order to tell the sex of the Sky-Lark, the London bird-dealers take the bird
in the left hand with the tail towards them, and with the right hand draw down
the wing until the point of the first long primary touches the tip of the outer-
most tail-feather: the wing of the male being distinctly longer than that of the
female, the so-called "shoulder" then appears to be much more angular in the
former than in the latter sex. I have seen considerable numbers of birds thus
tested, the males being caged and the females returned to the catchers, and I
never knew the test to fail: but females are rarely forwarded by experienced bird-
catchers, most of them being killed at the nets and sold to the poulterers.

Although abundant enough on moors and commons, downs, grassy cliffs, and
even mountains, the Sky-Lark certainly prefers arable land, pastures, and parks:
it seems especially to delight in fields of clover: it shuns all places thickly
studded with trees, such as woods, copses, and plantations, but is almost always
to be met with in country cemeteries.

Excepting when in pursuit of another individual of its own species, the flight
of the Sky-Lark does not strike one as being particularly rapid; it is somewhat
undulating, and there is a fluttering motion, even when it is crossing a field, which
is very characteristic. The male, when soaring, always commences its upward
flight with this butterfly-like hovering action, and sometimes it is continued until
it reaches its highest elevation; at other times it rises obliquely and rapidly, its
song the whole time fitting its movements: in its descent it sometimes drops
abruptly perhaps for forty or fifty feet, pauses a second and drops again, making
perhaps three or four stages in its fall, until, as it nears the ground, it flutters
round in a half-circle to the earth; each drop being accompanied by the finishing
shrill whee, whee, whee of its song: often it comes down with a wide graceful sweep.

The nest is placed in a depression in the ground, generally amongst growing
crops, often merely sheltered on one side by an overhanging tuft of coarse grass
or other vegetation, and sometimes without any shelter whatever; a singular nest
with a kind of lid formed of water-weed, which was pointed out to me by a
shepherd in the Isle of Sheppy, is described in my "Handbook." The nest itself
is more or less loosely constructed of dried bents and dead grass, and lined with
finer grass-stalks. The eggs number from four to five, and sometimes three may
