be found incubated, but it is doubtful whether so small a number ever represents
a full clutch: in ground-colour they vary a good deal-white, whity-brown, buffish
clay-coloured, or pale olive-green; generally densely mottled with olive or smoky
grey-brown over the entire surface, but frequently with a denser zone at the larger,
and more rarely at the smaller end; sometimes there are a few scattered streaks
and spots of deeper brown. The most aberrant egg which I have seen was one
lent to me for illustration in my "Handbook" (pl. XI, fig. 11), which bears a
curious resemblance to some eggs of the Common Bunting; it is white with a
deep brown patch at the larger end, shading into sienna and slightly macular
along its inferior margin.

Although the Sky-Lark pairs in March, nidification does not commence until
late in April, nests being most numerous towards the end of May; two broods
are reared in the year, the second nest being furnished with eggs late in June or
early in July. Both male and female are very wary in approaching their nest,
never descending close to it, but at some distance, whence they may be seen
threading their way in the most irregular fashion in and out of the herbage
towards it. This is best seen where the nest is somewhat exposed on an open
pasture, the mother-bird wanders about apparently in the most aimless fashion,
but constantly approaching the nest until about a foot from it, when she makes
straight for it and settles down. By watching patiently through a glass one can
thus sometimes discover the nest.

The Sky-Lark's song is so much admired and so well-known that it is hardly
necessary to describe it; it consists mainly of a shaking water-bubble trill, inter-
spersed with long drawn notes, and is marvellously exhilarating, considering how
little variety there is in it. The bird sings either soaring, or perched on a stump
or a thick branch.

In the summer the food of the Sky-Lark consists of spiders, insects, their
larvæ, and worms; but in winter, and more especially during frosty weather, it
gets little else but seeds of grasses, plantain, etc. During the latter season this
species is very gregarious in its habits, and consequently immense numbers are
netted, the male birds usually realizing from 9d. to 1s. apiece, according to whether
they are disposed of to dealers or private persons; the females, as already stated,
are generally killed for the table.

In 1886, I made my first attempt at rearing Sky-Larks from the nest: I
obtained seven young birds about eight days old, and at first kept them in a
basket of hay; but no sooner was this opened than these active little things
bounded out like grasshoppers, often clearing my shoulders and alighting on the
floor behind me. This I considered dangerous, and, therefore, bought a long "Lark-
