Family-ALAUDIDÆ.

THE WOOD-LARK.

Alauda arborea, LINN.

IN summer the Wood-Lark inhabits the southern portions of Scandinavia, and
Russia below about 60° N. lat., as far east as the Ural Mountains, while
in Northern Germany it is common. Southward, it is found in places
suited to its habits-especially in Central France-down to the Mediterranean,
Black and Caspian Seas; its numbers being increased by accessions from the
north in winter, at which season it also visits Northern Africa and Palestine, and
in the latter it is said to breed on the high ground."-Howard Saunders.

In Great Britain the Wood-Lark is by no means a common bird, and is very
local in its distribution; occurring chiefly on undulating sandy or chalky soil
dotted about with small woods, copses, or plantations. It is most frequently to be
met with in suitable localities in the southern counties of England and Wales;
six specimens have been obtained on the Scilly Islands; but has, from time to
time, occurred in most of the northern counties. In Scotland it is very scarce,
but has once been stated to have bred in Stirlingshire. A few appeared from
early in November to about the middle of December, on Fair Isle, in 1906. In
Ireland it is principally confined to the east and south.

In general colouring the Wood-Lark nearly resembles the Sky-Lark, but can
always be distinguished both when perching and on the wing by its short tail.
It is also smaller and has a more slender bill; the bastard primary is much
longer; the blackish centres to the feathers of the upper surface are wanting on
the rump and upper tail-coverts, the primary-coverts have white tips; central tail-
feathers reddish-brown, with dusky centres, outermost feather brown, the outer web
dusky at the tip, the inner web with a broad black patch; remaining feathers
blackish, with terminal triangular white spots; a broad buffish-white superciliary
stripe extending backwards to the nape; ear-coverts rufous, with darker upper
margin; cheeks and throat whitish, becoming distinctly yellowish-buff on the
breast and abdomen; flanks brownish; throat narrowly streaked with black;
breast and flanks broadly streaked; bill dark brown above, paler below; feet light
