horn-brown; iris hazel. The female differs somewhat as in the Sky-Lark; the
wing being decidedly shorter in this sex than in the male. Young birds are more
rufous above, the feathers tipped with buff; below they are more yellow and much
more freely spotted with black than in adults.

On account of the different character of the nostrils (in this species) which
are half exposed and overhung by an operculum, Dr. Sharpe and others have
separated it as a distinct genus-Lullula, Kaup, doubtless suggested by the French
"Lu-lu," a name given as an indication of its flute-like notes.

Col. L. H. I. Irby, in his "Ornithology of the Straits of Gibraltar," says
that "on the Andalucian side the Wood-Lark is sparingly and locally distributed
during the winter months up to as late as the 21st of April, frequenting scrub
where not very thick, a favourite locality near Gibraltar being the Chaparales
(ground covered with brushwood) in the Cork-wood. Well-known to the Spanish
bird-catchers, and highly valued as a cage-bird; they assured me that the Wood-
Lark never remains to nest near Gibraltar, but they are known to breed near
Malaga."

The Wood-Lark is only to be found in timbered country; not that it confines
itself strictly to the immediate neighbourhood of woods, or clearings in plantations,
parks, and groves, although these are its favourite resorts; for it also frequents
commons; but trees appear to be necessary to its happiness, and where these do
not exist it will not be met with.

Although very fond of perching on the branches of trees, the Wood-Lark feeds
principally on the ground, where it also roosts and builds its nest. The latter is
placed in a depression in the earth, sometimes under a grass-tussock or small
bush; it is more compactly built than that of the Sky-Lark; sometimes
of couch-grass and a little moss, with finer grass and a little hair for a lining;
sometimes wholly of grass bents, the finer ones forming the lining. The eggs,
which in this country are often deposited by the middle of March, are apparently
not laid in Central Spain until the beginning of May (Lilford) or in the Parnassus
until the third week in that month (Seebohm): they number from four to five, and
are buffish- or greenish-white, spotted with reddish-brown, or brownish-lilac, and
with underlying greyer spots: as with the allied species they may either be evenly
distributed over the entire surface, or more densely massed at the extremities, or
in a zone near the larger end; as a rule, however, the spots are smaller and less
confluent than in eggs of the Sky-Lark, those of the Wood-Lark being generally
admitted to more nearly resemble some varieties of those of the Crested Lark.
The Wood-Lark is double-brooded, and I have never been out of town quite early
enough for the first brood.
