The food of this bird is exactly similar to that of the Sky-Lark, consisting
chiefly of insects in summer, and seeds in winter.

The Wood-Lark's song is very pure and melodious and by many it is con-
sidered only second to that of the Nightingale, but it certainly is not so full
of variety as the song of that bird; nevertheless it has the merit of being
persevered in throughout the year, excepting during the moulting season; it
is usually commenced, and sometimes completed, from the branch of a tree;
but more frequently the tree only represents the point at which the flight-song
begins: the last time that I heard the flute-like music of this bird at liberty, I was
down at Dover with my old friend Dr. John Grayling, of Sittingbourne; we were
approaching a wood when, from a tree at the side of the road, we heard the
delightful song of a Wood-Lark; looking up we soon espied him on a branch
and were able to identify him without difficulty by his short tail and prominent
eye-streak. Presently he soared away, rising at first obliquely and then gradually
swinging round, still singing, and rising until he had reached the height of his
ambition, when with wide spiral curves he descended to the earth. The Wood-
Lark is said sometimes to sing throughout the night, and it certainly does sing
well into the "gloaming," which has led rustics at times to confound it with the
Nightingale; but, by careless observers, it is much more generally confused with
the Tree-Pipit.

Although this bird sometimes soars quite as high as the Sky-Lark this is
not its general habit; moreover it flies more in circles and descends to the
earth in a wide spiral, instead of obliquely or by jerky drops.

As a cage-bird, the Wood-Lark is a great favourite, and I have possessed
two adult specimens. On one occasion when driving through a country
road in Kent, with woods on either side, a young bird was seen scampering
and leaping to get out of our way. The driver pulled up and succeeded in
catching it for me; but although it soon fed itself and to repletion, it quickly
got cramp and died. Later on, in June 1887, my son and I caught sight of
a slightly older example of this species in a somewhat similar situation and
exerted ourselves to catch it, but it made for a tall hawthorn hedge, up which
it escaped with such rapidity, that before we could come up with it, the bird
was out of our reach. About September, 1894, I was beautifully taken in by an
unprincipled bird-catcher: he had told me of a lovely Wood-Lark which he had,
and which he described as singing splendidly. One dark night he knocked at my
front door and told me he had brought this bird, which I could have for three
shillings. I put my hand through the opening at the top of the cage, and took
the bird out; it had a short tail, but (even in the dark) looked somewhat uncanny;
