the centres of the feathers darker than elsewhere; the bastard primary is large;
the tail-feathers are dark brown, with greyish margins, excepting the outermost
feather which is pale brown with buff outer web; and the second feather which
has a sandy-buff margin to the outer web; the superciliary stripe is broad,
extending far backwards from above the eye, and is buffish-white; the under parts
are principally buffish-white, deeper on the flanks and thighs; sides of throat
spotted with blackish-brown; breast spotted and streaked with dark brown; flanks
slightly streaked; bill brown, under mandible paler; feet fleshy horn-brown; iris
hazel. The female has a shorter crest, and is rather smaller than the male, and
has a much shorter wing. The young are more rufescent and have blackish sub-
terminal bars and pale buff tips to the feathers of the upper parts. After the
autumn moult the plumage of the Crested Lark becomes more sandy in tint, and
the dark centres to the feathers less conspicuous.

Col. Irby, in his "Ornithology of the Straits of Gibraltar" gives the
following account of this species:-"The Crested Lark is one of the most
abundant birds both in Morocco and Andalucia, though never seen in any great
numbers together. They are distributed in pairs on every road-track and open
plain, often at intervals of only some twenty yards. Excessively tame and fear-
less, they have acquired the name of Carretera, from their habit of frequenting
roads, to which they resort as much on account of the horse and mule-dung, at
which they are to be seen pecking, as for the purpose of dusting themselves;
and they are often to be noticed on the sea-shore, running about like a Sanderling
within a yard of the water.

They have no song worthy of the name, and are altogether rather vulgar and
uninteresting birds. This species is one of those which I could not detect
migrating in the slightest degree.

The Crested Lark usually commences to lay about the 20th of April, placing
the nest in some tuft of grass or under shelter of a small stone or clod of earth
-constructing it, like those of other Larks, with bits of grass, bents, etc., lined
with hair."

Howard Saunders says:-"The nest, often commenced early in March, is
usually placed in some such depression of the dry ground as a hoof-print, or
amongst herbage, but sometimes on an old wall or bank of earth, or even on the
ridge of a low thatched shed in the fields; the materials employed being dry
grass and roots. The eggs four to five in number, vary from greyish-white
distinctly spotted with brown and violet-grey, to greenish-grey mottled with olive-
brown; average measurements ˙95 by ˙68 in. Incubation, in which the male
takes part, lasts a fortnight. The Crested Lark is a tame and conspicuous bird,
