frequenting sandy roads-in which it is fond of dusting itself-and running with
great rapidity, while I have often seen it glide beneath a horse when at a slow
walk, rather than take wing. Its flight is undulating and resembles that of the
Wood-Lark. It is not gregarious, and is generally seen singly, or in pairs and
family parties. The short but rather liquid and melodious song of the male is
generally uttered on the ground, though often during a short flight, and occasion-
ally from a bush; the note may be syllabled as 'coo-hai.' The young are fed
on insects and their larvæ, but seeds and grain form the principal food of this
species, and in snowy weather it may be seen examining horse droppings, etc."
"Manual of British Birds," p. 244.

Dixon says that in Algeria he "often saw this bird soar into the air for
perhaps a hundred yards or so, all the time warbling its simple song."

Speaking of it in India, Theobald describes the nest as "a little grass in
a hole in the ground, with four ovato-pyriform yellowish-white eggs uniformly
freckled with greyish-yellow and neutral tint."

Jerdon says that the "Chendul" "feeds on various insects, chiefly grass-
hoppers, and in default of this food, on grains and seeds." In his "Birds of
India," vol. II, p. 437, he gives the following account:-"It is not known in
Bengal nor in the Himalayas, nor in the countries to the eastward. It prefers
dry open sandy plains, or ploughed land, to grass, wet meadows, or cultivation.
It rises in the air singing, though not so high as A. gulgula,* nor is its song so
fine. In winter it may be seen in small parties, or sometimes in considerable
flocks, occasionally on roads and barren places."

From what Jerdon says, the "Chendul" as the Hindoos call the species
is much esteemed on account of its song (although Seebohm states that the latter
is short and monotonous, not unlike that of a Corn-Bunting) he observes: "It is
frequently caged in all parts of the country, and the bird is kept in darkness by
several layers of cloth wrapped round the cage; the custom being to wrap an
additional cover round the cage every year. In this state it sings very sweetly,
and learns to imitate most exactly the notes of various other birds, and of animals,
such as the yelping of a dog, the mewing of a cat, the call of a hen to her
chickens, etc., etc."

Herr Rausch speaks of the Crested Lark as an original songster, but considers
that, as regards its adult wild song it is an insignificant and almost worthless
singer. Perhaps Herr Rausch, like Seebohm, may only have heard the bird sing
like a Corn-Bunting, and it is quite possible that the different races of the species
vary considerably as regards the excellence of their performance. This we know
