Family-ALAUDIDÆ.

THE SHORT-TOED LARK.

Calandrella brachydactyla, LEISL.

HOWARD SAUNDERS admits that this species has been "justifiably
placed in the genus Calandrella, characterized by the absence of crest, a
stout conical bill, straight and short hind-toe, and infinitesimal bastard
primary." I, therefore, see no advantage in continuing to call it Alauda.

Inhabits Southern Europe in summer and is resident in Spain and Portugal,
as well as the Canaries and North-west Africa; in winter it occurs in North-east
Africa and southward as far as Abyssinia; eastward it breeds in Persia, Turkestan,
and North-west India.

To Great Britain the Short-toed Lark is a rare straggler, about nine
authenticated instances of its occurrence in England having been recorded, six
of them in autumn, one in April, and one in July: of these one was obtained on
the Scilly Islands, one in Hampshire, four in Sussex, one in Cambridge, and one
in Shropshire: in 1890 one caught near Portsmouth was exhibited at the Crystal
Palace. In 1904, a female was caught on the Outer Hebrides, and it has occurred
once in Ireland.

The general colouring of the male in breeding-plumage is pale rufous or
sandy-brown, with dark brown centres to the feathers; the central tail-feathers
are smoky-brown, the remainder blackish, but the two outer feathers have
pale buffish patches, similar to the white patches on the tail of the Sky-Lark; a
white superciliary streak; under parts white, suffused with pale buff on the breast
and flanks; a few dark streaks on the sides of the neck; bill dark brown, paler
below; feet yellowish horn-brown; iris hazel. The female resembles the male
in plumage, but is peculiar in having both wing and tail longer than in the male.
The young have all the feathers of the upper parts tipped and bordered with
buff. After the autumn moult the plumage is redder.

Colonel Irby ("Ornithology of the Straits of Gibraltar") says:-"On the
Andalucian side of the Straits the spring arrival commences about the middle of
March, and the passage continues for a month later, at which time nests with
eggs may be found near Gibraltar. Excessively abundant, as above stated, in
