the same situations as the Calandra; they prefer fallow ground, nesting under
shelter of some clod or in any slight depression of the ground. I never could
find the nest, except by putting the old bird off."

Howard Saunders says:-"During the breeding-season the bird frequents
dry and sandy soil, and plains where the herbage is somewhat scanty; while its
tameness is such as often to cause difficulty in shooting a specimen for identification
without blowing it to pieces, and I have seen a bird cut down with a whip in
the road. The male utters his short and feeble song while perched on some clod
or low wall, or during a brief, undulating, and somewhat jerky flight. In autumn
and winter large flocks are formed."

The season of nidification, as Seebohm has pointed out, of the Short-toed
Lark varies, commencing at dates decided by the conditions of climate in the
countries where it spends its summer; in the warmer regions it begins as early
as April, whilst in colder countries nesting operations may be delayed until June.

The nest, like that of all its allies, is in a slight depression on the ground,
sometimes barely sheltered by irregularities of the soil, but frequently as with
other Larks, placed amongst grass or partly sheltered by a bush. It is of the
ordinary type, and consists of grass-bents, rootlets, down, and sometimes feathers
with a few hairs as a finish to the lining.

The eggs as well as the nest are very similar to those of our Sky-Lark,
excepting in their inferior size, and (as is the case with that bird) a nest will
sometimes only contain a clutch of three; but I have always considered it probable,
when the normal number of eggs is from four to five, as with the Short-toed and
Sky-Larks, that the bird has been disturbed in its first nest and has had to build
again in a hurry. In colouring the eggs are creamy-whitish freely sprinkled
with pale smoky-brown spots and with greyer shell-spots; these markings are
more or less dense in different specimens, sometimes almost concealing the ground-
tint and often with a zone of heavier marking near the larger end; but these
variations are common to all the Larks and might almost be taken for granted.

Jerdon (cf Cat. Birds, E. I. Comp., vol. II, p. 473) observes:-"This bird
appears on the table-land of Southern India in October. It associates in vast
flocks, frequenting the bare grass-downs, and is fond of damp spots, as at the
edge of tanks, etc.; it also frequents grain-fields, and almost always retires to
them for shelter during the heat of the day; from whence it does not in general
issue again till next morning."

In his "Birds of India," vol. II, p. 427, he adds the following facts:-"It
feeds almost entirely on seeds; both runs and hops on the ground, and has a
call-note like that of the real Lark's. Towards the end of March in the south,
