April in the north of India, different flocks often unite into vast troops, containing
many thousand birds, and quite darkening the air, so close do they keep together,
even when flying. Great numbers are netted in some parts of the country, or
taken by bird-lime, or shot; for when feeding, they keep close to each other.
On one occasion, on the cavalry parade ground, at Kamptee, I bagged twelve
dozen birds after discharging both barrels, and many wounded birds escaped.
They get quite fat about this time, and are really very excellent eating, and they
are always called Ortolan by Europeans in India. They leave the north of India
about the end of April, or beginning of May, and they breed in the steppes of
Central Asia, Eastern Russia, and also in Northern Africa, placing their nest on
the ground at the edge of a scrub or bush, and laying four to six eggs, usually
marked with grey and rufous spots, but sometimes, it is said, unspotted yellow-
brown."

It is probable that, as with all the Larks, insects form a large proportion of
this bird's food in summer and seed in winter.

Herr Gätke says ("The Birds of Heligoland," pp. 359-360):-"Formerly,
hardly a year passed without this pretty little Lark being observed here at the
end of May or June, even though only in very solitary instances.

In former years, when more favourable conditions of weather prevailed, the
bird was seen pretty frequently in autumn, sometimes even as late as November.
During the time I have been collecting, it has passed through my hands about
thirty times; and besides that, it has been seen and heard, without being killed,
on an equal number of occasions.

I kept one of these pretty little birds over a year in a cage; it had been
momentarily stunned by a very light shot which had grazed the back of its head,
but recovered very soon, and became extraordinarily tame. It underwent a
complete moult in the autumn, managed to get safely through the winter, and
sang heartily during the spring; but died, much to my regret, at the beginning
of the summer. Its song was much more like that of a Bunting than a Sky-
Lark. I fed it on Canary-seed, which, like a Lapland Bunting in a cage hanging
by its side, it used to peel* before consuming; a Shore-Lark on the other hand,
which I had had for over ten years in a cage, never did this."
