Family-ALAUDIDÆ.

THE SHORE-LARK.

Otocorys alpestris, LINN.

BREEDS within the Arctic Circle beyond the limits of forest-growth in
the northern portions of the Old and New Worlds; on migration it
occurs throughout the greater part of Europe, though hitherto not recorded
from Spain and Portugal; eastward it is met with in Turkestan, S. Siberia, and
N. China.

To Great Britain this bird was at one time only an irregular visitor, but
since the winter of 1869-70 when there was a considerable immigration to our
eastern coasts, its appearance in autumn and winter has been regular; according
to Mr. Aplin, specimens have visited us on the northward migration in spring as
late as April 22nd. On the eastern coast of Scotland it has been met with as
far north as St Andrews. In 1906 a few visited Fair Isle (Shetlands), from
October to December.

The adult male of the Shore-Lark has the forehead, a stripe partly en-
closing the eye and ear-coverts, and extending over the sides of neck, and uniting
with a patch over the chin and fore-throat creamy-white; the front of the crown
and an erectile tuft on each side of the crown, the lores, cheeks, and a belt across
the lower throat and breast, black; ear-coverts creamy, tipped with brown; nape,
mantle, lesser wing-coverts, and upper tail-coverts vinaceous-brown; wing-coverts
tipped with white; quills smoky-brown, the first primary white externally, the
others with ashy-margins; feathers of the back greyish-brown with black centres
to the feathers; two central tail-feathers coloured like those of the back, the
remainder black, the outer feather with white margin to the outer web; remainder
of under parts creamy-white, becoming vinous on the breast, flanks, and thighs;
flanks streaked with brown; bill and feet black; iris deep brown. The female
is smaller, duller, with less black and no erectile tufts on the head, but with dark
centres to all the feathers of the upper parts. Young males resemble the winter
plumage of the female, but young females show no yellow on the forehead and
have black bases to the feathers of the crown. After the autumn moult adult
birds have yellow margins to the feathers on the head and nape.
